Name: ZOOL 500A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ZOOL 500B Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: ZOOL 500D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ZOOL 503 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ZOOL 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: ZOOL 554 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ZOOL 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: WRIT 098 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: WRIT 099 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: WRDS 150 Credits: 3 Desciption: Writing and reading in the social sciences and humanities, focusing on practices which the research disciplines share, and those which differentiate them. Credit will be granted for only one of WRDS 150 or ASTU 150.
Name: WRDS 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: An advanced scholarly research and writing course that allows students to build on their existing knowledge of academic research and writing practices by studying specific features of scholarly writing relevant to their own interests and disciplines.
Name: WOOD 120 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to forestry, wood products industry, processes, products, markets and global trade policy issues affecting the wood industry. Not available for credit to students in the B.S.F. degree.
Name: WOOD 225 Credits: 3 Desciption: Strategies for thinking critically and writing effectively about topics that engage practitioners in Forestry, particularly in Wood Products Processing.  Planning, drafting and editing of professional-quality documents for specialists and other stakeholders. Developing oral presentation skills.
Name: WOOD 244 Credits: 3 Desciption: Solving practical problems in the wood industry using computer-based mathematical tools including spreadsheets, visual basic programming and relational database systems.
Name: WOOD 245 Credits: 3 Desciption: Practical computer and problem solving cases taken from wood products manufacturing industrial applications.
Name: WOOD 249 Credits: 1 Desciption: Seminars on current forestry and wood products topics.
Name: WOOD 276 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the strength of materials with emphasis on the elastic properties and ultimate strength of wood and wood products.
Name: WOOD 280 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to tree growth; macroscopic and microscopic anatomy and identification of softwoods and hardwoods; descriptions of cell wall ultra-structure, wood variability and wood quality.
Name: WOOD 282 Credits: 3 Desciption: Wood-moisture relationships, transport phenomena, acoustical and electrical properties of wood. Effects of wood attributes at macro- and micro-levels on the strength properties of solid wood.
Name: WOOD 290 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic secondary wood products manufacturing. Focus on producing and joining lumber, edging, drilling, veneers and CNC equipment.
Name: WOOD 292 Credits: 2 Desciption: Computer-aided graphics software used in the wood products sector.  Visualization of product designs and specifications in two and three dimensions.
Name: WOOD 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term assignment required. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in Wood Products Processing.
Name: WOOD 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term assignment required. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in Wood Products Processing.
Name: WOOD 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Use of industrial engineering concepts and methods to analyze and improve organizations, including operations strategy and competitiveness, quality control, work measurement, inventory management, linear programming, sensitivity analysis, transportation problems, and capacity planning.
Name: WOOD 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: Modern techniques for improving quality in the workplace with particular emphasis on the forest products industry. Topics include quality control management, control charting, continuous improvement and analysis of variance techniques.
Name: WOOD 356 Credits: 2 Desciption: Machines used for wood products manufacturing, design, maintenance, purchasing. Selection of components including drives, bearings, brakes, clutches, fasteners, springs.
Name: WOOD 373 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to structure and properties of polymers and wood finishes; chemistry of adhesives and preservatives.
Name: WOOD 384 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to primary log breakdown systems and lumber material flow in modern sawmills and planermills. Lumber drying equipment and methods.
Name: WOOD 386 Credits: 3 Desciption: Beam analysis, shaft analysis, columns, stress/strain transformations, thin-walled pressure vessels, material strength failure, criteria, fatigue, design and sizing, ISO standards.
Name: WOOD 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks fulltime.  Final work term assignment required. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in Wood Products Processing.
Name: WOOD 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term assignment required. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in Wood Products Processing.
Name: WOOD 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Use of engineering economics to evaluate investment proposals of an engineering nature, including decision making processes, time value of money, cash flow analysis, comparison methods, depreciation, replacement analysis, taxes, inflation and sensitivity analysis.
Name: WOOD 449A Credits: 1 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in wood products processing.
Name: WOOD 449B Credits: 2 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in wood products processing.
Name: WOOD 449C Credits: 3 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in wood products processing.
Name: WOOD 449D Credits: 4 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in wood products processing.
Name: WOOD 449F Credits: 6 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in wood products processing.
Name: WOOD 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of globalization and its impact on sustainability, including social, economic, and environmental aspects.
Name: WOOD 464 Credits: 4 Desciption: Introduction to polymeric coatings and finishes used in the wood products industry; surface preparation, application equipment and properties of various coatings; wood deterioration and its protection for external applications.
Name: WOOD 465 Credits: 3 Desciption: Business management concepts common in the forest products industry including marketing, customer research, product development and design.
Name: WOOD 474 Credits: 2 Desciption: Wood moisture, density and strength properties; manufacturing processes for major forest products.
Name: WOOD 482 Credits: 4 Desciption: Introduction to computer assisted design and manufacturing with a focus on the fundamental issues of geometry and machine tools including an understanding of standard computer tools. Applications to secondary wood products manufacturing.
Name: WOOD 485 Credits: 3 Desciption: The theory and practice of modern construction techniques used in the manufacture of furniture and cabinets.
Name: WOOD 487 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical, chemical and mechanical variables involved in adhesive bonding of composite wood products; characteristics of adhesives; plywood, composite wood panels, hardboard, medium density fibreboard, laminated wood and engineered lumber composites manufacturing processes; important physical and chemical properties of products.
Name: WOOD 491 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to pneumatic and hydraulic power, design and selection of waste recycling systems, boilers, energy generation and environmental legislation.
Name: WOOD 492 Credits: 3 Desciption: Applications of mathematical modeling, optimization, and simulation in forest planning and manufacturing; formulating models and interpreting results for decision support.
Name: WOOD 493 Credits: 3 Desciption: A report (approved by a faculty supervisor and the Program Director) based on either a technical description of a study, an extension of the senior co-op report, a detailed literature review, a research-based project, or a guided independent study developed by the student.
Name: WOOD 494 Credits: 3 Desciption: Wood cutting fundamentals, chip formation, cutting conditions, cutting edge maintenance, sawing, planing and molding, veneer cutting, chipping, turning.
Name: WOOD 499 Credits: 6 Desciption: Development of a wood products manufacturing start-up company.  Development of comprehensive business plan, marketing strategy, product design, equipment selection and justification, manufacturing plant layout, and economic analyses.
Name: VURS 499 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: VISA 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to a broad range of contemporary studio practice. Intended for first year Bachelor of Fine Arts VISA students.
Name: VISA 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: Foundation instruction in techniques and approaches to digital practice. The nature of digital technologies and their role in contemporary culture will be examined. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
Name: VISA 180 Credits: 3 Desciption: Drawing, painting, and related media in an introduction to studio practice. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
Name: VISA 183 Credits: 3 Desciption: Contemporary art practices, emphasizing the relationship between meanings and materials, art historical contexts and concepts, and non-traditional materials. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
Name: VISA 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of current art practices and issues related to digital technologies and contemporary culture, with an emphasis on the theoretical conceptualization of digital artistic media.
Name: VISA 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of skills in drawing including life drawing. Introduction to the development of personal style and concepts.
Name: VISA 230 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of a variety of techniques and approaches to painting. Emphasis on developing a strong paint vocabulary as well as acquiring knowledge of historical and contemporary issues in painting.
Name: VISA 240 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to photography techniques and image-making. Emphasis on camera techniques and film and darkroom production. Only one of VISA 240 or VISA 241 may be used toward requirements for Major, Minor, or Honours programs in Visual Art.
Name: VISA 241 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to digital photography image creation in relation to contemporary art. Emphasis on digital camera use, file management, and digital print production.  Only one of VISA 240 or VISA 241 may be used toward requirements for Major, Minor, or Honours programs in Visual Art.
Name: VISA 250 Credits: 3 Desciption: Visual print culture, and contemporary and historical technical print practices. Emphasis on hand-drawn intaglio, relief, screen and/or stencil printing, and graphic digital applications.
Name: VISA 260 Credits: 3 Desciption: Contemporary sculpture practice and theory. Various sculpture materials and technologies including machinery use.
Name: VISA 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploring issues and topics in interactive digital media and culture through the creation of critical contemporary art. Includes technical instruction with a focus on the development of individual and group projects.
Name: VISA 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of issues and topics in digital media and visual culture through the production of contemporary video art. Technical instruction in video manipulation software. Individual and/or group projects.
Name: VISA 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of drawing as a discipline in the context of contemporary art. Emphasis on expanding definitions of the drawing practice while focusing on technical and conceptual development.
Name: VISA 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of drawing as a discipline in the context of contemporary art and theory. Emphasis on self-directed projects in consultation with the instructor.
Name: VISA 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of techniques and personal style in relation to ideas. History and contemporary issues in painting will be introduced  to assist students in conceptualizing their painting practice.
Name: VISA 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: Further investigation of painting in the context of contemporary art.  Emphasis on self directed projects in consultation with the instructor.
Name: VISA 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: An investigation of approaches to photography and its meaning in the context of contemporary art. The term theme will be determined by the instructor. B and W, colour and digital production.
Name: VISA 341 Credits: 3 Desciption: An investigation of contemporary photography production and approaches to the constructed image with emphasis on medium and large format camera use and studio lighting techniques.
Name: VISA 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Intaglio and relief print applications (i.e., etching, wood and/or lino cut, and collagraph) in combination with digital and photographic technologies, and drawing; discussion of contemporary and historical visual print culture.
Name: VISA 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Screen printing and other print applications in combination with digital and photographic technologies, and drawing, explored within the context of contemporary art.
Name: VISA 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of contemporary practices in sculpture and the use of scale. Emphasis on public sculpture.
Name: VISA 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: Intermediate tutorial. Not offered every year.
Name: VISA 370A Credits: 3 Desciption: Intermediate tutorial. Not offered every year.
Name: VISA 375 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploring artistic practice through community-engaged partnerships and critical study.
Name: VISA 380 Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar in problems in contemporary art practice and related theory. Preference given to Visual Art students.
Name: VISA 381 Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar in problems in contemporary art practice and related theory. Preference given to Visual Art students.
Name: VISA 390 Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminar-based studio focusing on performance and actions in the field of contemporary art.
Name: VISA 401A Credits: 3 Desciption: Research-based studio with thematic or disciplinary focus.  Intended for senior Visual Art undergraduate students.
Name: VISA 401B Credits: 3 Desciption: Research-based studio with thematic or disciplinary focus.  Intended for senior Visual Art undergraduate students.
Name: VISA 401C Credits: 3 Desciption: Research-based studio with thematic or disciplinary focus.  Intended for senior Visual Art undergraduate students.
Name: VISA 401E Credits: 3 Desciption: Research-based studio with thematic or disciplinary focus.  Intended for senior Visual Art undergraduate students.
Name: VISA 401F Credits: 3 Desciption: Research-based studio with thematic or disciplinary focus.  Intended for senior Visual Art undergraduate students.
Name: VISA 401G Credits: 3 Desciption: Research-based studio with thematic or disciplinary focus.  Intended for senior Visual Art undergraduate students.
Name: VISA 401H Credits: 3 Desciption: Research-based studio with thematic or disciplinary focus.  Intended for senior Visual Art undergraduate students.
Name: VISA 475 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exhibition course focusing on current curatorial practices and theories with an emphasis on contemporary visual art with the aim of preparing students to engage in the active organization of a large exhibition. Restricted to 4th year Majors in either VISA or ARTH, or permission of the instructor.
Name: VISA 479 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced performance art practices and research methodologies.
Name: VISA 480 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in art theory and criticism.
Name: VISA 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in art theory and criticism.
Name: VISA 580 Credits: 0 Desciption: M.F.A. only.
Name: VISA 581 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: VISA 582 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: VISA 583A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: VISA 583B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: VISA 590A Credits: 3 Desciption: Tutorial work in visual arts and theory arranged by permission with an individual faculty member. Not available to students enrolled in the M.F.A. program in Visual Arts.
Name: VGRD 500 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: VGRD 600 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: VANT 140C Credits: 3 Desciption: Sustained language support for linked content courses in International Program. Students develop strategies for self-directed learning.
Name: VANT 140D Credits: 4 Desciption: Sustained language support for linked content courses in International Program. Students develop strategies for self-directed learning.
Name: VANT 148 Credits: 2 Desciption: Projects linked to topics explored in the UBC Vantage College International Program curricula.
Name: VANT 150 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics in sustainability, including the impact of technology on the environment and society, and fundamentals of engineering design. Restricted to students in the UBC Vantage College Engineering Stream.
Name: URSY 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: Urban systems in society and economy; spatial issues; equity and social justice. Governance, policy, regulation. Globalization and international development; implications for urban systems. Urban and regional economics; infrastructure financing. Urban systems and technology; tradeoffs; socio-economic-technical systems; emerging and green technologies.
Name: URSY 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Planning for engineers. Demand-side planning: population and demand modeling; demand management. Supply-side planning:  long term planning, strategic planning. Data, metrics, indicators and assessment.
Name: URSY 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: Stakeholder practices: stakeholder engagement, public consultation, partnerships, stakeholder management, buy-in. Project delivery: project delivery options, public-private partnerships (P3), integrated project delivery (IPD), partnering. Modeling, analytical methods, and decision support: economic and risk modeling.
Name: URSY 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: General frameworks for infrastructure management, system-specific asset management (road conditions, pipe inspection), maintenance and renewal. Data, metrics, indicators and assessment: data sources, performance indicators, assessment, assessing condition and sustainability, multi-objective, multi-criteria decision making, performance prediction, lifecycle cost analysis (LCA), sustainability.
Name: URST 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: An interdisciplinary introduction to the city in the context of contemporary globalization.  Analysis of urban patterns and processes from the theoretical perspectives of various disciplines and methodologies.
Name: URST 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar for senior students who wish to explore some common topics of importance to urban studies from the viewpoints of several disciplines.
Name: UFOR 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: Roles played by urban forestry and greenspace systems in a rapidly changing world; topics include urban ecology, urban forest conservation, urban forest management, climate change, society and human well-being, design and planning, urban/rural interface issues, and urban forest policy.
Name: UFOR 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic relationships between urban residents mental and physical well-being and their urban forest environment.
Name: UFOR 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sustainable practice within the arboricultural discipline with emphasis on a comprehensive understanding of techniques and equipment used in a range of arboricultural operations.
Name: UFOR 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of field skills, professional judgment, critical reflection, and integration of theory, practice, and policy. Offered at Malcolm Knapp Research Forest over a 7-day period in April.
Name: UFOR 401 Credits: 6 Desciption: Integration of biophysical and socio-economic components of urban greenspace management and planning through within a collaborative holistic group project linked to a real-world urban forestry situation.
Name: UFOR 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: The administrative, legal, policy, and business environments for urban forestry governance, management, and planning.
Name: UFOR 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ecological principles relevant to restoration of ecosystems are applied to the restoration of several types of ecosystems.
Name: UFOR 449A Credits: 1 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry out directed studies on a specific topic/problems in Urban Forestry and related greenspace planning, management, or governance.
Name: UFOR 449B Credits: 2 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry out directed studies on a specific topic/problems in Urban Forestry and related greenspace planning, management, or governance.
Name: UFOR 449C Credits: 3 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry out directed studies on a specific topic/problems in Urban Forestry and related greenspace planning, management, or governance.
Name: UFOR 449D Credits: 4 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry out directed studies on a specific topic/problems in Urban Forestry and related greenspace planning, management, or governance.
Name: UFOR 449E Credits: 5 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry out directed studies on a specific topic/problems in Urban Forestry and related greenspace planning, management, or governance.
Name: UFOR 449F Credits: 6 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry out directed studies on a specific topic/problems in Urban Forestry and related greenspace planning, management, or governance.
Name: UDES 501 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: UDES 502 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: UDES 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: UDES 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: TRSC 001 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: TRSC 002 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 120 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and practice of the theatrical arts. Attendance at plays is required.
Name: THTR 130 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 150 Credits: 3 Desciption: Foundation study of production technologies for the performing arts.
Name: THTR 205A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: The Anatomy of Drama: Its history, aesthetic principles, performative potential.
Name: THTR 211 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics in comparative drama; drama and the other performing arts; dramaturgy.
Name: THTR 250 Credits: 3 Desciption: The construction and execution of scenery, costumes, properties, lighting, and sound for the stage.
Name: THTR 271 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students. An audition is required.
Name: THTR 272 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 273 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students. An audition is required.
Name: THTR 274 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 299A Credits: 3 Desciption: Assigned projects in theatre production.
Name: THTR 299B Credits: 3 Desciption: Assigned projects in theatre production.
Name: THTR 299C Credits: 3 Desciption: Assigned projects in theatre production.
Name: THTR 299L Credits: 3 Desciption: Assigned projects in theatre production.
Name: THTR 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and practice of scenery design for the performing arts.
Name: THTR 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and practice of costume design for the performing arts.
Name: THTR 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: The optical, distribution, and control systems used in stage lighting design.
Name: THTR 308 Credits: 3 Desciption: Audio design and production for theatre and other performance forms.
Name: THTR 323 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 325A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 340B Credits: 3 Desciption: Open to all students in third year and above.
Name: THTR 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Scenery construction, rigging, and systems.
Name: THTR 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: Media, techniques, and textural treatments used in scene painting.
Name: THTR 354 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and procedures of stage management: organizations, systems, and operations.
Name: THTR 356 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced assembly and specialized construction methods for producing costume for stage and screen.
Name: THTR 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 372 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 373 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 374 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 391A Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to  B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 391B Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to  B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 391C Credits: 6 Desciption: Open only to  B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 399A Credits: 3 Desciption: Assigned projects in theatre design and production.
Name: THTR 399B Credits: 3 Desciption: Assigned projects in theatre design and production.
Name: THTR 399C Credits: 6 Desciption: Assigned projects in theatre design and production.
Name: THTR 399L Credits: 3 Desciption: Assigned projects in theatre design and production.
Name: THTR 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploration of complex scenery design and development of design portfolio.
Name: THTR 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Complex problems and selected historical studies in costume design.
Name: THTR 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: Complex design and advanced technologies in stage lighting and scenography.
Name: THTR 408A Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics will vary from year to year. Consent of Department required.
Name: THTR 408B Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics will vary from year to year. Consent of Department required.
Name: THTR 408D Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics will vary from year to year. Consent of Department required.
Name: THTR 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Key movements in world theatre history from the nineteenth century to the present.
Name: THTR 440A Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination in depth of a selected area of theatre history, theory or practice. Topics will change from year to year. May be repeated for credit when topics differ.
Name: THTR 440D Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination in depth of a selected area of theatre history, theory or practice. Topics will change from year to year. May be repeated for credit when topics differ.
Name: THTR 445 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 448C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Technical direction; complex techniques and problems in scenery production.
Name: THTR 452 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of selected scene painting styles.
Name: THTR 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pattern development and cutting for costume for stage and screen using flat pattern and draping.
Name: THTR 471 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. (Acting) students.
Name: THTR 472 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 474 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 491A Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 491B Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 491C Credits: 6 Desciption: Open only to B.F.A. Acting students.
Name: THTR 499A Credits: 6 Desciption: Assigned projects in Theatre or Film design and production.
Name: THTR 499B Credits: 6 Desciption: Assigned projects in Theatre or Film design and production.
Name: THTR 499C Credits: 9 Desciption: Assigned projects in Theatre or Film design and production.
Name: THTR 499L Credits: 6 Desciption: Assigned projects in Theatre or Film design and production.
Name: THTR 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: Scenery design for theatre and other performance forms.
Name: THTR 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: Costume design for theatre and other performance forms.
Name: THTR 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: Complex scenery design for opera, dance, theatre, and other performance forms.
Name: THTR 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: Complex costume design for opera, dance, theatre, and other performance forms.
Name: THTR 520 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 521 Credits: 6 Desciption: An advanced course in directing; detailed study of the major styles in the history of production.
Name: THTR 530A Credits: 3 Desciption: Studies in a selected area of theatre in relation to one or more of the other arts.
Name: THTR 547A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 547B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 547C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 549B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 549C Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 550 Credits: 6 Desciption: Seminar in theatre scenery, costumes, and architecture of selected historical periods. Pre- or co-requisite: THTR 505 and THTR 506.
Name: THTR 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: Lighting design for theatre and other performance forms.
Name: THTR 555 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: THTR 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: SWED 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SWED 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SWED 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SWED 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SURG 430 Credits: 8 Desciption: Post-operative care of patients, evaluation of pre-operative patients, mastery of technical skills for common ward procedures, assessing ambulatory patients and assisting in the operating room.
Name: SURG 500 Credits: 4 Desciption: Lectures and seminars dealing with the selected application of surgical techniques in biological investigation.
Name: SURG 502 Credits: 2 Desciption: The basic principles of surgery common to all branches of surgery.
Name: SURG 504 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fundamental concepts in general surgery. Given in alternate years.
Name: SURG 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: Online course. Foundation to international surgery. The discussion of the global burden of unmet surgical needs and a professional response in low and middle income regions of the world.
Name: SURG 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: Online course. Relationship of surgery to preventing and treating disabling impairments in lower income countries. Focus will be on sensory impairments (blindness and deafness) and physical impairment.
Name: SURG 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: Online course. Examines response to humanitarian disasters. Includes case models of surgical care responses and strategies to move from relief to recovery.
Name: SURG 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: Online Course. Program Planning and Evaluation in Surgical Care contexts. Theory, approaches and methods for conducting surgical care programs among populations in various low resource contexts. Key concepts, ethical approaches and practices, and practical skills development. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 540 or SURG 516.
Name: SURG 548A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: SURG 548B Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: SURG 548C Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: SURG 549C Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: STS 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Classic work in the history, philosophy, rhetoric, and sociology of science, and the development of a unified science and technology studies.  Required for all students in the STS Program.  This course is co-taught.
Name: STS 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: Thematizes the relations of historical, philosophical, literary, rhetorical, sociological, and anthropological approaches to science and technology.
Name: STS 597 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: STS 598A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: STS 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Classical, nonparametric, and robust inferences about means, variances, and analysis of variance, using computers. Emphasis on problem formulation, assumptions, and interpretation. See the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: STAT 203 Credits: 3 Desciption: Organizing, displaying and summarizing data. Inference estimation and testing for elementary probability models. Not for credit towards a B.Sc. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar.)
Name: STAT 241 Credits: 3 Desciption: Probability models, random variables and vectors, estimation, testing, regression, analysis of variance, goodness of fit, quality control. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar).
Name: STAT 251 Credits: 3 Desciption: Probability, discrete and continuous random variables, joint probability distributions, estimation, hypothesis testing, regression, analysis of variance, goodness of fit. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar).
Name: STAT 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Further topics in statistical inference, including parametric and non-parametric methods, goodness-of-fit methods, analysis of variance and covariance, regression analysis, categorical data analysis, experimental designs, time series, model fitting, and statistical computing.
Name: STAT 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic notions of probability, random variables, expectation and conditional expectation, limit theorems. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar.)
Name: STAT 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of probability theory. Sampling distribution theory, large sample theory and methods of estimation and hypothesis testing, including maximum likelihood estimation, likelihood ratio testing and confidence interval construction.
Name: STAT 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: Modeling a response (output) variable as a function of several explanatory (input) variables:  multiple regression for a continuous response, logistic regression for a binary response, and log-linear models for count data.  Finding low-dimensional structure:  principal components analysis.  Cluster analysis.  (Consult the Credit Exclusion List within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar).
Name: STAT 321 Credits: 4 Desciption: Stochastic behaviour of signals and systems (e.g., communication systems); discrete and continuous probability; random processes; modeling and identification of linear time-invariant systems; binary hypothesis testing and decision making.
Name: STAT 344 Credits: 3 Desciption: Planning and practice of sample surveys. Random sampling, bias and variance, unequal probability sampling, systematic, multistage and stratified sampling, ratio and regression estimators, post-stratification, establishing a frame, pretesting, pilot studies, nonresponse and additional topics.
Name: STAT 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting. Normally taken during Winter Session of third year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Statistics.
Name: STAT 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting. Normally taken during Summer Session following third year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Statistics.
Name: STAT 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and application of analysis of variance for standard experimental designs, including blocked, nested, factorial and split plot designs. Fixed and random effects, multiple comparisons, analysis of covariance. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar).
Name: STAT 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Flexible, data-adaptive methods for regression and classification models; regression smoothers; penalty methods; assessing accuracy of prediction; model selection; robustness; classification and regression trees; nearest-neighbour methods; neural networks; model averaging and ensembles; computational time and visualization for large data sets.
Name: STAT 443 Credits: 3 Desciption: Trend and seasonality, autocorrelation, stationarity, stochastic models, exponential smoothing, Holt-Winters methods, Box-Jenkins approach, frequency domain analysis.
Name: STAT 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings and projects in areas of current statistical application including environmental science, industrial statistics, official statistics, actuarial statistics, and medical statistics.
Name: STAT 460 Credits: 3 Desciption: A detailed theoretical development. Statistical models, exponential families, sufficiency, completeness, and detailed properties of point estimation. Intended for Honours students.
Name: STAT 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: Detailed development of the theory of testing hypotheses and confidence regions, Bayesian models and inference, elements of decision theory and additional topics. Intended for Honours students.
Name: STAT 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting. Normally taken during Summer Session following fourth year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Statistics.
Name: STAT 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting. Normally taken during Term 1 of Winter Session of fifth year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Statistics.
Name: STAT 535A Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 536C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 538A Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 545A Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 547C Credits: 3 Desciption: Students should consult the Statistics Department for the particular advanced topics offered in a given year.
Name: STAT 547H Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Students should consult the Statistics Department for the particular advanced topics offered in a given year.
Name: STAT 547L Credits: 3 Desciption: Students should consult the Statistics Department for the particular advanced topics offered in a given year.
Name: STAT 547M Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Students should consult the Statistics Department for the particular advanced topics offered in a given year.
Name: STAT 548A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 548B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will not be given for both STAT 460 and STAT 560.
Name: STAT 561 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 589 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: STAT 599 Credits: 3 Desciption: Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative M.Sc. Education Program in Statistics.
Name: STAT 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: SPPH 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: The Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course covers the idea of "population health," and the implementation and evaluation of programs or policies to improve health. Open to all students. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 200 or IHHS 200.
Name: SPPH 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: This is a tutored, web based Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course on planning/preparing for work in a developing country. Causes of ill health amongst populations living in poverty; analysis of available solutions. Health Science background not essential. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 300 or IHHS 300.
Name: SPPH 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 302 or IHHS 302.
Name: SPPH 381A Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 381C Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 381D Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Planned collection, numeric and graphic summarization, and elementary statistical analysis of data. Examples primarily from health sciences illustrate standard techniques for parametric and non-parametric hypothesis testing; regression and correlation; contingency tables. Also randomization, "blindfolding" and other specifically biomedical topics in statistics. Class size may be limited.
Name: SPPH 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course promotes collaborating interprofessionally. Each student team will identify and research a critical public health issue, and develop a detailed practical and effective intervention. Intended for students in health and human service programs. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 410 or IHHS 410.
Name: SPPH 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course covers violence in families across the lifespan. Particular emphasis on intersections of race, class, and gender; the long-term impact of childhood exposure to violence; and prevention-focused initiatives. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 411 or IHHS 411.
Name: SPPH 481C Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics will vary.  Multiple versions may be taken. This course takes an interprofessional approach and population/public health perspective in addressing current issues in healthcare and health-related fields.
Name: SPPH 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic epidemiological designs as a framework for commonly used biostatistical techniques such as the Mantel-Haenszel, chi-squared, linear and logistic regression, and survival analysis. Computer packages will be available for computation of assignments.
Name: SPPH 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: To explore and compare methods of analyzing continuous and categorical longitudinal data. The issues of missing data and errors in measurement/misclassification will be covered in depth.
Name: SPPH 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sources and uses of epidemiologic data for health services planning and administration including methods of data collection and study design.
Name: SPPH 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical thinking in epidemiology; principles and methods of study design; context for epidemiological investigations of human health.
Name: SPPH 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: This second level course will teach research trainees to apply methods taught in prior courses towards the development of a fundable research protocol and the analysis and interpretation of real epidemiologic data.
Name: SPPH 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: The course will provide a framework for students to use epidemiological and other scientific evidence to make decisions about causation and to recommend policy actions.
Name: SPPH 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: Major quantitative research designs, measurement reliability and validity, common data sources used, internal and external validity, research proposals, and peer review. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 506 or SPPH 548.
Name: SPPH 507 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: SPPH 507 in conjunction with SPPH 607 is a required course for students in the M.Sc. program. Students present and discuss their research and other topics of interest.
Name: SPPH 508 Credits: 6 Desciption: Includes a significant component of applied epidemiology and biostatistics in a field setting.
Name: SPPH 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts and techniques of measurement in epidemiological research.  Topics covered include validity, reliability and misclassification, scale design and the construction of questionnaires and indices for both health outcomes and exposures.
Name: SPPH 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: Collection and analysis of epidemiological data on cancer; genetic, occupational, and other risk factors; analytic techniques; cancer control, prevention, screening, early detection, and policy issues.
Name: SPPH 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ethical considerations, intention-to-treat versus efficacy trials, principles of sampling and exclusion, methods of allocation and techniques of randomization, parallel versus cross over design, monitoring treatment outcomes, adverse effects, stopping rules, analytic techniques and data interpretation, and logistical issues in the management of clinical trials.
Name: SPPH 513 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and methods of epidemiology are applied to clinical problems. Evaluation and design of laboratory and clinical tests and of therapeutic interventions.
Name: SPPH 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods and application of decision analysis to improve health from the perspective of the policy maker, health professional, and patient.
Name: SPPH 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPPH 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPPH 519 Credits: 3 Desciption: Purposes, context, procedures, and relationships within qualitative health research and methologies.
Name: SPPH 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Epidemiology of viral, bacterial and parasitic infections with emphasis on the control of these infections in human populations. Immunization programs will be stressed.
Name: SPPH 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: Role of air, water, food and solid waste as sources of human health risks; global environmental health issues; sustainability.
Name: SPPH 523 Credits: 3 Desciption: Global threats to human health stemming from conflict, poverty, and environmental degradation.
Name: SPPH 524 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cell biology, microbiology, molecular science, genetics, physiology, and evolution.
Name: SPPH 525 Credits: 3 Desciption: History of public health research and practice; occupational and environmental health; health services and systems; social and lifecourse determinants of health; and population health and emerging trends.
Name: SPPH 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: Organizational structure; engaging others in an organization; inter-organizational networking; building coalitions; identification of opportunities to bring change to organizations through knowledge development, management, synthesis, and implementation.
Name: SPPH 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: Foundational thinking giving rise to the concept of population health.  Overview of the current state of research.
Name: SPPH 529 Credits: 0 Desciption: Required for all M.H.Sc. students.
Name: SPPH 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory, concepts, measurement, and practical skills using administrative data for analysis of health care systems.
Name: SPPH 532 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPPH 533 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mechanism of action of commonly encountered occupational toxic agents; relevance of laboratory and epidemiological evidence.
Name: SPPH 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: Scientific basis for the recognition, evaluation, and control of chemical, physical, and biological, exposures; standard setting; exposure monitoring methods.
Name: SPPH 536 Credits: 3 Desciption: Experience of colonization; Indian Act; the histories and intergenerational impact of the residential school; child-welfare systems; communicable disease prevention; the challenge of ethical public health practice; and traditional healing.
Name: SPPH 537 Credits: 3 Desciption: Indicators of maternal/newborn well-being across population subgroups, changing trends in obstetrical intervention, perinatal morbidity, and the analysis of perinatal data.
Name: SPPH 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines the concept of evaluation in health services and how various methodological approaches can be used in evaluative studies.
Name: SPPH 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: Economic evaluation of health service interventions and programs, with emphasis on methods and components of program costing.
Name: SPPH 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of the evolution and structure of the Canadian health care system.
Name: SPPH 545 Credits: 3 Desciption: Practice and community-based (participatory) research related to health promotion, including its historical and philosophical roots. Application of social and behavioural theories to participatory research and the planning, implementation, and evaluation of community health promotion initiatives.
Name: SPPH 547 Credits: 3 Desciption: Resource allocation, economics and ethics based approaches for decision making, uptake of evidence to inform resource use in health care.
Name: SPPH 549 Credits: 3 Desciption: Economic evaluation of health technologies, considering, in detail, the policy context for the use of economic evaluation.
Name: SPPH 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical examination of strategies regarding addictive behaviours, substance use and related problems, in the context of a multidisciplinary approach.
Name: SPPH 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: Industrial hygiene and environmental exposure monitoring, methods, and instrumentation, and theory. Laboratories demonstrate workplace sampling and analysis techniques.
Name: SPPH 563 Credits: 3 Desciption: Industrial ventilation, heating and air conditioning systems, respiratory protection, chemical protective clothing.
Name: SPPH 565 Credits: 3 Desciption: Human factors in workplace design, anthropometry, work physiology.
Name: SPPH 566 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of occupational hygiene principles using field investigations, critical appraisal of results, and communication with labour and management.
Name: SPPH 567 Credits: 3 Desciption: Determinants of exposure, sampling strategies.
Name: SPPH 570 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: SPPH 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPPH 581A Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 581C Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 581J Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 581N Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 581P Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 581R Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 581S Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 581T Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 581X Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 598 Credits: 6 Desciption: Applied project on approved topic based on practicum: requires a written and oral report.
Name: SPPH 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: SPPH 607 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Required course in Ph.D. program. Topics of current interest will be presented and discussed by students and various faculty.
Name: SPPH 621 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research approaches in the area of population and public health; focus on developing research questions and the centrality of research questions in conducting research.
Name: SPPH 681A Credits: 3 Desciption: By seminar and directed readings, certain topics of current interest are explored in depth.
Name: SPPH 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: SPHA 501 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Fundamental concepts of asset pricing and corporate finance.
Name: SPHA 502 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Development and use of accounting information for management planning and control, and the development of cost information for financial reports. Same as BAAC 550; credit will not be given for both.
Name: SPHA 503 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Financial accounting concepts as they relate to health care administration, including the preparation of external financial reports and financial statement and analysis.
Name: SPHA 510 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Analysis of topical Canadian health policy issues including an historical overview of the health care system, health care funding, public / private financing, health care personnel and pharmaceutical policy challenges.
Name: SPHA 511 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: SPHA 521 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: The effects of individual and group behaviour on organizational processes and outcomes. The organization as an actor and how it behaves in different types of environments.
Name: SPHA 522 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Aligning the management of human resources with organizational strategy. Best practices in HR management, as well as the role of health care leaders in effectiveness and efficiency.
Name: SPHA 531 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Maximizing health benefits from health care budgets.
Name: SPHA 533 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Application of priority setting and resource allocation methods to improve health from the perspective of the policy maker, health professional, and patient.
Name: SPHA 542 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: The application of management tools and principles to production and allocation problems.
Name: SPHA 543 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: The role of IT in health care management, the importance of effective IT in a health care setting, and the strategic uses of IT.
Name: SPHA 551 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Basic concepts and methods in Epidemiology.
Name: SPHA 553 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Basic concepts and principles underlying program planning and evaluation in health services.
Name: SPHA 554 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Data analysis and statistical inference. Applications in assessment of the legitimacy and significance of reports.
Name: SPHA 555 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Data collection, numeric and graphic summarization, and elementary statistical analysis. Examples primarily from health sciences.
Name: SPHA 556 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Foundations of population health. An overview of research on determinants of health, with an emphasis on the social determinants of health.
Name: SPHA 557 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Current concepts, methods, and applications in health care quality assessment and improvement.
Name: SPHA 562 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: SPHA 563 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Ethical dilemmas in the health care setting. Understanding how Ethical features of the system may contribute to or perpetuate some of these problems.
Name: SPHA 581B Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Opportunity to focus on a selected topic under faculty supervision.
Name: SPHA 590A Credits: 6 Desciption: Completion of a bounded project within a health agency and under individual faculty supervision. Honours/Pass/Fail.
Name: SPAN 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamentals of the Spanish language; speaking and writing on everyday activities and future plans in the context of common tasks and situations, including interactive communication, grammatical explanations, and cultural awareness.
Name: SPAN 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Speaking and writing on past events, and expressing desires and wishes in the context of common situations, including interactive communication, grammatical explanations, and cultural awareness.
Name: SPAN 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reviews the fundamentals of the Spanish language, and introduces more complex structures; listening, speaking, writing, and reading on a range of situations related to everyday life and Hispanic culture.
Name: SPAN 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: Expands on the fundamentals of the Spanish language, and presents more complex structures in a variety of tenses and modes; interacting through discussions and gaining cultural awareness through literature and film.
Name: SPAN 206 Credits: 3 Desciption: Emphasizes communication skills through discussion, debate, and presentations; developing oral fluency and listening comprehension, through discussion of written texts and films. May include experiential learning projects involving native speakers from the Hispanic community.
Name: SPAN 207 Credits: 3 Desciption: Builds on communication skills through discussion, debate, and presentations; exploration of cultural topics through discussion of written texts and other media. May include experiential learning projects involving native speakers from the Hispanic community.
Name: SPAN 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: Major texts, authors, periods, and genres of Hispanic literature; key concepts, terminology, and practices of literary analysis that serve as a foundation for higher-level Spanish literature courses.
Name: SPAN 222 Credits: 3 Desciption: Media, figures, periods, and genres of Hispanic culture; key concepts, theories, and practices of cultural analysis that serve as a foundation for higher-level Spanish culture courses.
Name: SPAN 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced grammar structures in context, lexical repertoire, fluency and cultural awareness to broaden and develop language skills.
Name: SPAN 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced grammar structures in context; students expand lexical repertoire, and gain fluency and flexibility as they deepen cultural awareness through reading, listening, discussion, and writing.
Name: SPAN 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: Conservation and progress on the Iberian Peninsula, from the Middle Ages to the present. Includes the first modern European state and its diverse cultures.
Name: SPAN 357 Credits: 3 Desciption: Tradition, faith, conflict, prosperity, and decadence in literature and everyday life from the Middle Ages to 1700.
Name: SPAN 358 Credits: 3 Desciption: Modern Spanish literature and culture, from Empire to the European Union. Includes Romanticism, Modernism, Republicanism, and Separatism.
Name: SPAN 364 Credits: 3 Desciption: Spanish colonialism in the Americas from the Conquest to the 1820's and the dawn of Independence. Includes coloniality, hybridity, subalternity, and autonomy.
Name: SPAN 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: Literary engagements with modernity in the Spanish Americas, from the 1820's to the present. Includes civilization, progress, politicization, and violence.
Name: SPAN 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Developing linguistic proficiency and effective and accurate communication in both spoken and written Spanish. Includes close reading of texts, advanced written composition, cross-cultural analysis, and conversational skills.
Name: SPAN 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: Spanish as a linguistic system. Includes the structure of Spanish words and sentences, dialectal varieties in both Spain and Latin America, and linguistic theory.
Name: SPAN 470E Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected areas of study relating to colonial and/or nineteenth-century Spanish America. Consult the Department for this year's offerings.
Name: SPAN 495 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories and methodologies of the discipline. Consult the Department for this year's offering.
Name: SPAN 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPAN 501A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPAN 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPAN 505A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPAN 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPAN 530B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPAN 548 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPAN 549 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: SPAN 570A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SPAN 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the perspectives, concepts and theoretical foundations of social welfare, including an analysis of the institutional structures of social welfare in the modern state.
Name: SOWK 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the knowledge, skills and values of social work practice in its many forms, emphasizing different ways of understanding the context of social and personal problems.
Name: SOWK 305 Credits: 6 Desciption: An examination of the foundation, knowledge and competencies underlying generalist social work practice. Enrolment is limited to students in the B.S.W. program.
Name: SOWK 310A Credits: 6 Desciption: Communication theory and interviewing skills and their application to the Social Work interview.
Name: SOWK 315 Credits: 6 Desciption: A supervised practicum in an assigned social service, two days a week throughout the program year. Limited to students in the B.S.W. program. This course will be graded Pass/Fail.
Name: SOWK 316 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integrates students' learning from field, practice, policy and theory courses for the purposes of professional development.
Name: SOWK 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to theory and conduct of social research as applied to social welfare and social work practice. The focus is on development of social work research questions and design of studies. Enrolment is limited to students in the B.S.W. program, except by permission of the school.
Name: SOWK 335 Credits: 6 Desciption: Theoretical considerations of relevance to social work practice.
Name: SOWK 337 Credits: 3 Desciption: Issues and problems inherent in practising social work in diverse cultural settings.
Name: SOWK 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of race, gender, class and culture as factors in the distribution and delivery of Canadian social benefits and social services.
Name: SOWK 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: This course examines the principles of optimal social work process with individuals, small groups, families and larger collectivities.
Name: SOWK 415 Credits: 6 Desciption: A supervised practicum in an assigned social service, two days a week throughout the program year. Enrolment is limited to students in the B.S.W. program. This course will be graded Pass/Fail.
Name: SOWK 416 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of professional judgement, evaluation, and self-evaluation in practice.
Name: SOWK 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: Contemporary social issues facing First Nations peoples and communities examined in the context of the history of Euro-Canadian/First Nations relations; the impact of Euro-Canadian institutions upon First Nations peoples; implications for social policy and social work practice.
Name: SOWK 430A Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures, seminars and/or individual tutorials to develop knowledge and skills in relation to a defined theory, policy or practice problem or client population. Enrolment is limited to students in the B.S.W. program, except by permission of the School.
Name: SOWK 440B Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of seminars offered during the final term of studies which address salient issues in social policy and social work practice and draw upon combined knowledge from social work and related disciplines.
Name: SOWK 440C Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of seminars offered during the final term of studies which address salient issues in social policy and social work practice and draw upon combined knowledge from social work and related disciplines.
Name: SOWK 440J Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of seminars offered during the final term of studies which address salient issues in social policy and social work practice and draw upon combined knowledge from social work and related disciplines.
Name: SOWK 440K Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of seminars offered during the final term of studies which address salient issues in social policy and social work practice and draw upon combined knowledge from social work and related disciplines.
Name: SOWK 440Q Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of seminars offered during the final term of studies which address salient issues in social policy and social work practice and draw upon combined knowledge from social work and related disciplines.
Name: SOWK 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: The ways in which the familial, physical, and social environment effects the life structures, opportunities and outcomes of epigenetic developmental processes.
Name: SOWK 442 Credits: 3 Desciption: Covers the statutory bases and practices associated with the continuum of child welfare services from prevention through permanency planning.
Name: SOWK 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Online course providing overview of social work services to persons with a mental illness.
Name: SOWK 453 Credits: 3 Desciption: This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course considers how health and human service professionals can effectively practice with people with disabilities from a social justice perspective. Social and personal context and practice responses are examined. Offered as IHHS 407 prior to September 2015. Credit will be granted for only one of SOWK 453 or IHHS 407.
Name: SOWK 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 502 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 506 Credits: 6 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: SOWK 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of professional judgment, critical reflection, and integration of theory, practice, research and policy.
Name: SOWK 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 523A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 524A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 525 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 529A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 532A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 554C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 559 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced development of professional judgment, critical reflection, and integration of theory, practice, research, policy.
Name: SOWK 560C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 570 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 570A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 570F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 570K Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 571 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 572A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 601 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical examination of research, teaching, proposal writing and publication.
Name: SOWK 621 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical analysis of major social theories, differentiating competing approaches to understanding human behaviour; social theory, social ideology, and social ethics.
Name: SOWK 654 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOWK 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: SOIL 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOIL 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOIL 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOIL 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Field and laboratory analytical techniques in the chemical, biological and physical assessment of soils. Credit will be granted for only one of SOIL 503 or APBI 403.
Name: SOIL 512B Credits: 6 Desciption: Current research in root-soil interfaces. Offered in alternate years.
Name: SOIL 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods of watershed evaluation, land-water interactions, key aspects of hydrology, water quality and aquatic biota, land use impacts on water resources, community involvement, and integration of multiple land use activities and their cumulative impacts.  Credit will be granted for only one of SOIL 515 or RMES 515.
Name: SOIL 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: Urban land use impacts on water resources with a focus on impervious surfaces, storm-water management, non-point sources of pollution, cumulative effects, water quality, rehabilitation of urban streams, and application of best management practices. Prior completion of RMES 515 strongly recommended.  Credit will be granted for only one of SOIL 516 or RMES 516.
Name: SOIL 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts and methods for multi-purpose land evaluations and assessing resource development options; monitoring and modelling environmental systems using GIS techniques.
Name: SOIL 518 Credits: 3 Desciption: Key water issues associated with international development: global water demand, scarcity, efficiency of use, water as a commodity, biophysical and policy aspects of water management, water and health, land use impact, water harvesting, improved irrigation, and pollution prevention.  Credit will be granted for only one of SOIL 518 or RMES 518.
Name: SOIL 524 Credits: 2 Desciption: The theory, design and evaluation of instrumentation for biometeorological research. Consent of instructor.
Name: SOIL 530A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: SOIL 530B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOIL 530C Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: SOIL 530D Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: SOIL 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: SOIL 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 100 Credits: 6 Desciption: Introduction to problems in the analysis of social structures and processes. Basic sociological concepts will be introduced and their application demonstrated in various areas of sociology. Credit will be granted for only one of SOCI 100 or both SOCI 101, SOCI 102.
Name: SOCI 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Culture, identity, social interaction, relationships and socialization. Credit will be granted for only one of SOCI 101 or SOCI 100.
Name: SOCI 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Inequality, institutions, social structure and social change. Credit will be granted for only one of SOCI 102 or SOCI 100.
Name: SOCI 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to contemporary family forms and relations.
Name: SOCI 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the study of the relations between ethnic groups and of the interplay between ethnicity and other social factors.
Name: SOCI 210A Credits: 3 Desciption: Descriptive and analytic survey of such features as demographic characteristics, class structure, ethnicity, and regional variation in Canadian society as a basis for understanding current social issues.
Name: SOCI 217A Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to research designs and methodologies.
Name: SOCI 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sociological perspective of Indigenous peoples and issues both internationally and within Canada.
Name: SOCI 240A Credits: 3 Desciption: A general introduction to research on social interaction, with an emphasis on group (as opposed to individual) processes and behaviour. Topics include: status, power and prestige, distributive justice, marginality and social control, authority relations, and group structure and membership, all to be studied in the context of a variety of groups (such as families, formal organizations, communities and friendship groups) and cultures.
Name: SOCI 250A Credits: 3 Desciption: Crime as a social phenomenon, with emphasis on the changing definitions of crime in relation to social and political change in Canadian and other societies. The scope and nature of the crime problem, the growth of criminology as a science and profession, and relationships between components of state criminal justice systems.
Name: SOCI 260A Credits: 3 Desciption: The social forces responsible for changing patterns of technological innovation and work organization in modern industrial societies. Emphasis on the organization of work and the labour force. Topics may include division of labour, professionalization, labour movements, management techniques and bureaucracy, the social context of research and development initiatives, the effects of new technologies (e.g., automation) on the work place and social aspects of technological development in the Third World.
Name: SOCI 285 Credits: 3 Desciption: The concepts of citizenship, identity, and human rights as social processes shaping individuals and communities (both local and global).
Name: SOCI 301A Credits: 3 Desciption: Processes of social change in the Third World and other developing countries. Major themes stress the relationship between urbanization and industrialization; modernization and ethnic conflict; imperialism, neo-colonialism, and foreign aid; and intra-national modernization problems such as regional underdevelopment in industrial societies.
Name: SOCI 302A Credits: 3 Desciption: A critical examination of classical and contemporary theories and research evidence concerning ethnic and racial inequality at the societal and interpersonal levels.
Name: SOCI 303A Credits: 3 Desciption: Sociological approaches to the movement of peoples and its impact over time.
Name: SOCI 310A Credits: 3 Desciption: Social organization of Canadian society: relationships between social institutions and social processes (e.g., economics, education, family, law, media, and politics); including issues of ancestry, ethnicity, gender, region, and social class.
Name: SOCI 312A Credits: 3 Desciption: The nature of gender relations, their social and cultural expression, and theories of gender inequality.
Name: SOCI 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of diversity within and between families and of diverse family forms.
Name: SOCI 324 Credits: 3 Desciption: Individuals and families through the life course.
Name: SOCI 328 Credits: 3 Desciption: The testing of sociological theories using quantitative data analysis techniques on numerical data from social surveys, experiments and official statistics. SOCI 328 excludes credit for a number of other statistics courses in various departments. Please consult the Science Credit Exclusion List (www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414) before registering.
Name: SOCI 342 Credits: 3 Desciption: The structure and culture of consuming and consumption.
Name: SOCI 352A Credits: 3 Desciption: The meaning of work and leisure. Properties of work organization: division of labour and specialization; technology and working knowledge; means of coordinating work, such as cooperation, authority, and exchange. Research problems concerning work in households, offices, and industry, division of labour by gender, industrial democracy and the relation of work and social inequality.
Name: SOCI 360A Credits: 3 Desciption: Sociological perspectives on property, resource industries (such as agriculture, fishing, forestry and mining), resource development, and resource communities. May also include examination of social aspects of resource development in the Third World.
Name: SOCI 361A Credits: 3 Desciption: Tendencies toward equality and inequality; manifestations of inequality (occupation, education, gender, ethnicity, income, power) and their consequences; caste and class features of major stratification systems; theories of social class; stratification profile of contemporary industrial societies.
Name: SOCI 364 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical, social, and economic aspects of built environments, including housing and community planning.
Name: SOCI 369A Credits: 3 Desciption: Historical and social construction of sexual identities, desires, communities, and politics in the twentieth century.
Name: SOCI 370 Credits: 6 Desciption: An examination of selected traditions, conceptual problems, and current topics in the field of sociological theory. Credit will be granted for only one of SOCI 370 or both SOCI 371, SOCI 372.
Name: SOCI 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of selected traditions, conceptual problems and topics in the foundational theories of sociology. Credit will be granted for only one of SOCI 371 or SOCI 370.
Name: SOCI 372 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of theories in contemporary sociology. Credit will be granted for only one of SOCI 372 or SOCI 370.
Name: SOCI 380 Credits: 3 Desciption: Questionnaire design, interviewing, sampling, and analysis of survey data.
Name: SOCI 382 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of the different traditions of qualitative sociological inquiry and the associated methodological features used to study the interpretive practices and meanings in the everyday lives of individuals.
Name: SOCI 387 Credits: 3 Desciption: Social dimensions of the causes, consequences, regulation, and treatment of substance use from Canadian and international perspectives.
Name: SOCI 414A Credits: 3 Desciption: The emergence of feminist theory, its relationship to sociology, and the major theoretical schools of thought. The social basis and development of feminist thought from critiques of scholarship and research to contemporary debates will be addressed.
Name: SOCI 415A Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical approaches to the study of the family and family forms.
Name: SOCI 416 Credits: 3 Desciption: An in-depth examination of selected sociological theories. Consult the department for this year's offerings.
Name: SOCI 418A Credits: 3 Desciption: Primary emphasis on applications of statistical techniques to data in Sociology.
Name: SOCI 423 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cultural, economic, and political aspects of food production and consumption, including connections to class, ethnicity, and gender.  Food-related social movements will be included.
Name: SOCI 425A Credits: 3 Desciption: Demographic, behavioural, and organizational aspects of urban structures and of urbanization in different societies and periods.
Name: SOCI 433A Credits: 3 Desciption: General reading and/or a research undertaking, with the agreement, and under the supervision, of a Department faculty member selected by the student.
Name: SOCI 433C Credits: 6 Desciption: General reading and/or a research undertaking, with the agreement, and under the supervision, of a Department faculty member selected by the student.
Name: SOCI 440A Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of economic actions and institutions using the concepts and methods of sociology.
Name: SOCI 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: The study of family in social and economic contexts. Credit will be granted for only one of SOCI 441 and FMST 440.
Name: SOCI 442 Credits: 3 Desciption: The effect of combining family and work roles. Credit will be granted for only one of SOCI 442 and FMST 442.
Name: SOCI 444 Credits: 3 Desciption: Demographic, economic, and social trends associated with aging, ageism, and aging populations.
Name: SOCI 464A Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of the sources, stages, and effects of social movements in developing and modernized societies.
Name: SOCI 470A Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical examination of specific forms of crime and delinquency in relation to the criminal justice system including law, enforcement, and corrections. Issues selected for study will be further scrutinized within the cultural framework of ethics, morality, and social justice.
Name: SOCI 490 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current social topics in Chinese society; perspectives on gender, inequality, culture, and social relations.
Name: SOCI 495B Credits: 3 Desciption: An intensive examination of selected topics in Sociology. Consult the department for this year's offerings.
Name: SOCI 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 508A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 598A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 598B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 598C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 599A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: SOCI 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: SLAV 307A Credits: 3 Desciption: Films and translated literature by Slavic writers with emphasis on the interaction between politics and literature.
Name: SCIE 001 Credits: 27 Desciption: An innovative first-year multidisciplinary course incorporating biology, chemistry, mathematics, and physics with a strong focus on the connections between these traditional disciplines.  See the Science One website (www.scienceone.ubc.ca)  for further information and the application process for admission to SCIE 001.
Name: SCIE 113 Credits: 3 Desciption: Small-group experience where students study science in society, scientific process, and how to communicate scientific concepts.  Enrollment limited to students with first-year standing in the B. Sc. program in Science.
Name: SCIE 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Effective communication and presentation skills in science.
Name: SCIE 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Explores systems thinking in the context of sustainability and also re-examines the familiar three pillar model of sustainability - society, ecology, and economics - highlighting its uses and limitations.
Name: SCAN 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, and Icelandic texts ranging from Old Norse sagas to contemporary literary works against the background of literary, social, and political developments in Scandinavia.
Name: SCAN 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: History, literature, and mythology of early Scandinavian societies.
Name: SCAN 336 Credits: 3 Desciption: Crime fictions and films as a mirror of Scandinavian society.
Name: SCAN 411A Credits: 3 Desciption: Traces the explosive development of a provincial theatre into one of the seminal forces of twentieth-century drama and film. Emphasis on Ibsen, Strindberg, and Bergman.
Name: SCAN 413B Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination through literature of the historical, cultural, and ethnic elements that have made the Baltic area the crossroads of northeastern Europe. The emphasis is on literature from the Germanic  and Finno-Ugric languages. Authors to be studied include Strindberg, Tikkanen, Transtromer, Kaplinski, Grass, Bobrowski, Lenz.
Name: SCAN 414 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics, such as ethnicity, migration, identity, women's issues, Danish and Northern European film.
Name: SANS 300 Credits: 6 Desciption: Basic vocabulary and most important grammatical features of classical Sanskrit. Useful to students of South Asian history, culture, languages, philosophies, and religions, and of linguistics and classics. Credit will be granted for only one of SANS 300 or SANS 102 or both SANS 100, SANS 101 or both SANS 301, SANS 302.
Name: SANS 400 Credits: 6 Desciption: Advanced grammar and selected readings. Credit will be granted for only one of SANS 400 or SANS 200 or both SANS 201, SANS 202 or both SANS 401, SANS 402.
Name: SANS 450A Credits: 6 Desciption: Study of selected texts belonging to a particular period (e.g., Vedic) or representing a specific branch of kavya (poetic literature) or sastra (technical-philosophical literature).
Name: RUSS 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to contemporary Russian with emphasis on specialized vocabulary for science, commerce, law, etc. Oral practice, grammar, reading and writing. Note: Students who intend to use RUSS 101, 102 and 200 to satisfy the Faculty of Arts language requirement must register for both RUSS 101 and 102 in the same year.
Name: RUSS 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of RUSS 101.
Name: RUSS 200 Credits: 6 Desciption: Intermediate oral practice, grammar, reading, composition. A special section may be provided for Science students. Credit will be granted for only one of RUSS 200 or both of RUSS 201 and RUSS 202.
Name: RUSS 206 Credits: 3 Desciption: The writings, lives, and thought of selected authors.
Name: RUSS 207 Credits: 3 Desciption: The writings, lives, and thought of major Russian authors.
Name: RUSS 300 Credits: 6 Desciption: Intermediate oral practice, syntax and composition.
Name: RUSS 306B Credits: 3 Desciption: A comprehensive historical and critical presentation with emphasis on the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
Name: RUSS 315 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of RUSS 215. May be taken concurrently with RUSS 300.
Name: RUSS 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RUSS 400 Credits: 6 Desciption: Advanced oral practice, reading and composition.
Name: RUSS 400A Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced oral practice, reading and composition.
Name: RUSS 400B Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced oral practice, reading and composition.
Name: RSOT 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 513 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 519 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 525 Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: RSOT 545 Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 547 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 549 Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 553 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: RSOT 558 Credits: 9 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: RMST 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the main themes that shaped the Western part of Europe as its different national identities emerged in the Mediterranean sphere.
Name: RMST 222 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the main themes that shaped the Western part of Europe in the age of the nation state, imperialism, colonization, and decolonization.
Name: RMST 420C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 420 Credits: 4 Desciption: An introduction to the structure and function of the human nervous system.
Name: RHSC 500 Credits: 2 Desciption: Issues relevant to clinical investigations in rehabilitation. Emphasis on research design, measurement issues, selection of analytical approaches, and relevant epidemiological concepts.
Name: RHSC 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history, evolution and analysis of conceptual systems underlying practice in occupational therapy and physical therapy.
Name: RHSC 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 504A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 504B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 504C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 506A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 509 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 512 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Epidemiology, measurement, physiology, and adoption of physical activity in the prevention and treatment of chronic conditions.
Name: RHSC 530 Credits: 1 Desciption: Development, appraisal and formatting of a research proposal. Emphasis on research writing and critical analysis of a variety of research proposal formats.
Name: RHSC 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 581A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 583A Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 583B Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 583C Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 583D Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 585 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 587 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 589B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: RHSC 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: RGLA 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: RGLA 372A Credits: 3 Desciption: The topic is selected and announced annually by the RGLA Committee.
Name: RGLA 471 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of critical methods to one or more major authors.
Name: RES 500A Credits: 3 Desciption: Faculty and students from different disciplines act as an interdisciplinary team studying specific resource problems with ecological, economic, demographic and social dimensions. Techniques and methods are emphasized to show their value in integrating knowledge, defining policy and facilitating communication. Several sections with different emphasis offered each year.
Name: RES 500B Credits: 3 Desciption: Faculty and students from different disciplines act as an interdisciplinary team studying specific resource problems with ecological, economic, demographic and social dimensions. Techniques and methods are emphasized to show their value in integrating knowledge, defining policy and facilitating communication. Several sections with different emphasis offered each year.
Name: RES 500T Credits: 3 Desciption: Faculty and students from different disciplines act as an interdisciplinary team studying specific resource problems with ecological, economic, demographic and social dimensions. Techniques and methods are emphasized to show their value in integrating knowledge, defining policy and facilitating communication. Several sections with different emphasis offered each year.
Name: RES 500X Credits: 3 Desciption: Faculty and students from different disciplines act as an interdisciplinary team studying specific resource problems with ecological, economic, demographic and social dimensions. Techniques and methods are emphasized to show their value in integrating knowledge, defining policy and facilitating communication. Several sections with different emphasis offered each year.
Name: RES 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: Environment and resource management goals and issues. Students enrolled in the program will give two presentations. The first will outline specific research interests of the students. The second will provide a synopsis of research at a time when the student is nearing completion of the thesis. Faculty members and other speakers will also be invited to participate and present seminars.
Name: RES 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research design, data quality, analysis, representation, ethics review, structured and unstructured interviews, field observations, survey design.
Name: RES 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical analysis of harms and benefits, and anticipation of global technological innovations, as they interact with social behaviour.
Name: RES 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: Dynamics of environmental issues across temporal and spatial scales using disciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches to integrating sociological, cultural, and ecological perspectives.
Name: RES 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interdisciplinary science of climate change and its impacts; options for mitigation and adaptation.
Name: RES 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic skills for quantitative analysis including probability, validity of quantitative statements and experimental design to test hypothesis validity.
Name: RES 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: RES 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: RELG 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of the three main western monotheistic (Abrahamic) religions, together with the concepts used in studying religion, The focus will be on the origins and representative texts along with some historical development and current experience of each religion.
Name: RELG 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the world of Near Eastern mythology, from the Gilgamesh Epic to the Book of Genesis and beyond.
Name: RELG 203 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the scriptures of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
Name: RELG 207 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history and culture, values, and achievements of Islamic societies from 700-1500; the interconnections between power, politics, gender, and the arts in Islamic societies. This course is highly recommended as a basis for all 300- and 400-level Islamic Studies courses.
Name: RELG 208 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history and culture, values, and socio-political movements of the Islamic world from 1500 to the modern day; the interconnections between power, politics, gender, and the arts in modern Islamic societies. This course is highly recommended as a basis for all 300- and 400-level Islamic Studies courses.
Name: RELG 209 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of the Hebrew Bible ("Old Testament"), with emphasis on its ancient Near Eastern context; its competing religious perspectives; and its limits as a historical source.
Name: RELG 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: The impact of archaeological research on understanding the history and religion of ancient Israel.
Name: RELG 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of the Bible's "dark side," with emphasis on texts that center on sex, deceit, and murder.
Name: RELG 317 Credits: 3 Desciption: The origins of Christianity as reflected in early Christian literature of the first and early second centuries (including the New Testament).
Name: RELG 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Surveys the history of Jews and Judaism in the Second Temple era, from the destruction of the First Jerusalem Temple (586 B.C.E.) to the beginnings of the rabbinic movement (200 C.E.).
Name: RELG 414 Credits: 3 Desciption: The canonical and apocryphal gospels and the life and teachings of the historical Jesus.
Name: RELG 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: The life and literature of Paul in the Roman imperial world: letter writing, patronage and power; Roman imperial iconography; Paul and community formation.
Name: RELG 448 Credits: 3 Desciption: A topic relevant to the study of Islam as a religion: e.g., the text and doctrines of the Qur'an; the Hadith (or Traditions) of the Prophet; Islamic Law; mysticism in Islam; the Shi'ah and the Isma'ilis. Not offered every year. Consult the departmental brochure for the topic to be offered.
Name: RELG 475E Credits: 3 Desciption: Consult the course registration information each year for offered topics.
Name: RELG 500B Credits: 3 Desciption: Studies in the history, literature, canon and text, and the religious thought of the Old and New Testaments. This includes the study of the cultural and religious milieu out of which these documents arose. Such studies require a competence in the canonical languages (Biblical Hebrew and/or Koine Greek), usually achieved by not less than two years of study.
Name: RELG 502A Credits: 3 Desciption: Studies in the texts (in translation), history, and religious thought of Judaism after the close of the Biblical Period.
Name: RELG 548 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: RELG 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: PUNJ 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of PUNJ 100. Credit will be granted for only one of PUNJ 101 or PUNJ 102. Students who have taken Punjabi 11 in high school cannot take PUNJ 101 for credit.
Name: PUNJ 102 Credits: 6 Desciption: Spoken and written Punjabi. As of 2011W, credit will be granted for only one of PUNJ 100/101 or PUNJ 102. Students who have taken Punjabi 11 in high school cannot take PUNJ 102 for credit.
Name: PUNJ 200 Credits: 6 Desciption: Study of the grammar and introduction to Punjabi literature. As of 2011W, credit will be granted for only one of PUNJ 201/202 or PUNJ 200.
Name: PUNJ 300 Credits: 6 Desciption: Advanced grammar and conversation. Major genres of Punjabi literature. As of 2011W, credit will be granted for only one of PUNJ 301/302 or PUNJ 300.
Name: PUNJ 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Emphasis is on reading and written expression. Analytical writing in English and Punjabi required.
Name: PSYT 550A Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading and study in particular fields of study and research in psychiatry.
Name: PSYT 550B Credits: 6 Desciption: Reading and study in particular fields of study and research in psychiatry.
Name: PSYC 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to Methods and Statistics, Biopsychology, Learning, Perception, Memory, and Cognition. Credit will be granted for only one of PSYC 100 and PSYC 101.
Name: PSYC 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to methods and statistics, motivation, assessment, developmental, personality, clinical, and social psychology. Credit will be granted for only one of PSYC 100 and PSYC 102.
Name: PSYC 207 Credits: 3 Desciption: A focus on the interpretation of contemporary research in neuroscience, cognition, perception, memory, and learning.
Name: PSYC 208 Credits: 3 Desciption: A focus on the interpretation of contemporary research in social, developmental, personality, and clinical psychology.
Name: PSYC 216 Credits: 3 Desciption: Use basic principles of quantitative psychological research methods to critique psychological claims presented in the media and to translate psychological science to everyday life.
Name: PSYC 217 Credits: 3 Desciption: Focus on various research methods used in psychology, with an emphasis on critical thinking and experimental design.  Restricted to students in the Faculty of Arts who have declared their major in one of Psychology, Cognitive Systems, or Speech Sciences (Linguistics Department).
Name: PSYC 218 Credits: 3 Desciption: Use of inferential statistics in psychology and conceptual interpretation of data; experimental design (laboratory, field research methods); presentation of data analyses in reports. PSYC 218 excludes credit for a number of other statistics courses in various departments. Please consult the Science Exclusion List (www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414) before registering.
Name: PSYC 260 Credits: 8 Desciption: Detailed introduction to experimental and theoretical aspects of motivation, sensation, perception and learning.
Name: PSYC 300A Credits: 3 Desciption: The definition, history, and scope of abnormal behaviour; emphasis on the psychological factors that control its origins, maintenance, and modification.
Name: PSYC 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cognitive and behavioral impairments resulting from brain dysfunction. Focus on the efficacy of various intervention approaches.
Name: PSYC 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Human cognition, perception, motor, social, emotional needs, brain development and their interactions from birth until the emergence of language.
Name: PSYC 304 Credits: 6 Desciption: The neurobiological bases of behaviour; brain processes involved in perception, motivation, emotion, psychopathology, learning and memory. Open to all Arts and Science majors except those in the B.Sc. Psychology program. Credit will be granted for only one of PSYC 304 or PSYC 360.
Name: PSYC 305A Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and research on individual differences in motivation, emotion, and social behaviour.
Name: PSYC 306A Credits: 3 Desciption: Behavioural neuroscience; behavioural genetics; social systems; mating and parental strategies; instinct and learning; evolution of human behaviour. Credit will be given for only one of BIOL 310 or PSYC 306.
Name: PSYC 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cultural influences on human thought and behaviour; interactions of culture and self; multicultural experiences; intercultural relations; methodological issues.
Name: PSYC 308A Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and research of individual social behaviour; social motivation; attitudes; group interaction; socialization; prejudice.
Name: PSYC 309A Credits: 3 Desciption: Contribution of cognitive processes to perception, attention, and memory; cognitive development, language, thinking, and creativity.
Name: PSYC 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Psychological theory, research, and skills training related to sport performance, exercise motivation, and adherence. Credit will be granted for only one of PSYC 311 and HKIN 231 and 364.
Name: PSYC 312A Credits: 3 Desciption: The principal trends of psychological explanation and events in the history of psychology from the earliest times to the present. Open only to Major or Honours students or by permission of the instructor.
Name: PSYC 314 Credits: 3 Desciption: Health-related behaviours such as smoking and drug use; effects of stressful events on health; methods for coping with stress; impact of chronic illness on the family; social support systems.
Name: PSYC 315 Credits: 3 Desciption: Human development from the preschool period through adolescence.
Name: PSYC 319 Credits: 3 Desciption: Applications of theories and research in developmental psychology to contemporary social issues; topics may include daycare, child abuse, divorce and remarriage, substance abuse, sexuality.
Name: PSYC 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: Psychological theory and research on the interaction between organisms and the physical environment; emphasis on applications to the design and management of constructed and natural environments.
Name: PSYC 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: The application of psychological theory and research to legal issues and the criminal justice system.
Name: PSYC 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Classical and contemporary metaphors for memory and their impact on theory development.
Name: PSYC 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: The psychology of gambling behaviour, with emphasis on relevant work from judgment and decision-making, the cognitive neuroscience of choice, and clinical perspectives on disordered gambling.
Name: PSYC 336 Credits: 3 Desciption: Psychological abilities underlying human language; language processing, lexical representation, and principles of online conversation; animal versus human communication.
Name: PSYC 340B Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed investigation of a problem, requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 340C Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed investigation of a problem, requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 340E Credits: 6 Desciption: Directed investigation of a problem, requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 348B Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed investigation of an experimental problem requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 348C Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed investigation of an experimental problem requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 348E Credits: 6 Desciption: Directed investigation of an experimental problem requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 349 Credits: 6 Desciption: Orientation to psychological research, with special emphasis on ongoing research within the department; effective presentation of research findings, oral and written; critical evaluation of research. Requires a research project.
Name: PSYC 350A Credits: 3 Desciption: Human sexuality from a biopsychological, behavioural, and psychosocial perspective.
Name: PSYC 358 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and research on the evolution of the human mind, with emphasis on implications for cognition and behaviour in contemporary environments.
Name: PSYC 359 Credits: 3 Desciption: Prepares students for graduate studies or other advanced behavioural research; experimental design and analytic techniques; laboratory with computer applications.
Name: PSYC 360 Credits: 6 Desciption: The relationship between the nervous system and behaviour; the physiological basis of perception, motivation, learning, and memory. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PSYC 361 Credits: 3 Desciption: Experimental analysis of hunger, thirst, exploratory and curiosity behaviour, maternal and reproductive behaviour, fixed action patterns, and complex processes involved in social motivation with emphasis on the biological basis of motivation.
Name: PSYC 363 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to basic theories of non-associative learning, classical and operant conditioning. Experimental findings from behavioural and biological analyses with animals and humans.
Name: PSYC 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: Brain mechanisms underlying cognitive processes such as perception, attention, consciousness, and memory.
Name: PSYC 366 Credits: 8 Desciption: Detailed coverage of basic research methods; the design of experiments and statistical analysis; methods will be applied in laboratory and project work. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List:  www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PSYC 367 Credits: 3 Desciption: Anatomy and physiology of the sensory pathways and their relation to perception.
Name: PSYC 368 Credits: 3 Desciption: Perceptual phenomena and their underlying brain mechanisms.
Name: PSYC 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised relevant work experience in an industrial, academic, or government setting for a minimum of 13 weeks, full-time. Normally taken in Summer Session after third year. Work term report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in Psychology (B.Sc.).
Name: PSYC 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised relevant work experience in an industrial, academic, or government setting for a minimum of 13 weeks, full-time. Normally taken in fourth year Winter Session, Term 1. Work term report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in Psychology (B.Sc.).
Name: PSYC 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical and research foundations of the processes of assessment and behaviour modification in clinical psychology. Credit will be granted for only one of PSYC 400 or PSYC 401.
Name: PSYC 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cognitive, emotional, and motivational underpinnings of religious behaviour; supernatural beliefs, magical thinking, ritual, sacrifice; religion's role in morality, prosociality, health, violence, and intergroup relations.
Name: PSYC 409 Credits: 3 Desciption: The structure of the mind as revealed by brain injury, neurological illness, and surgical intervention.  Topics include attention, memory, language, sense of self, topographic awareness, moral reasoning, emotion, theory of mind, and social awareness.
Name: PSYC 440B Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed investigation of an experimental problem, requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 440C Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed investigation of an experimental problem, requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 440E Credits: 6 Desciption: Directed investigation of an experimental problem, requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed investigation of an experimental problem requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 448C Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed investigation of an experimental problem requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 448E Credits: 6 Desciption: Directed investigation of an experimental problem requiring a written report of the findings.
Name: PSYC 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: Students carry out a research project and report on its development during seminars. Students also discuss research by Departmental staff, with emphasis on choice of problems, research design and data analysis.
Name: PSYC 460 Credits: 3 Desciption: Detailed examination of the interaction between hormones and neural control of reproductive and non-reproductive behaviours; emphasis on gonadal and adrenal hormone effects on learning and memory in the brain.
Name: PSYC 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: Experimental findings and theory documenting the plasticity of the brain and its relationship to behaviour: emphasis on gene regulation, neurogenesis and cell morphology changes in relation to learning and experience.
Name: PSYC 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to neurochemical systems and functional neuroanatomy; animal models of human cognitive processes and mental disorders; neurochemical foundations and treatments for mental disorders.
Name: PSYC 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised relevant work experience in an industrial, academic, or government setting for a minimum of 13 weeks, full-time. Normally taken in fourth year Winter Session, Term 2. Work term report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in Psychology (B.Sc.).
Name: PSYC 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised relevant work experience in an industrial, academic, or government setting for a minimum of 13 weeks, full time. Normally taken in Summer Session after fourth year. Work term report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in Psychology (B.Sc.).
Name: PSYC 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 508A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 534B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 537 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 538 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 541 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 545A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 546B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 546E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 546H Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 546I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 547D Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 547E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 556 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 559 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 579 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 582A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 587A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PSYC 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: PORT 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Grammar, composition, translation, oral practice. Credit will be granted for only one of PORT 101 or PORT 110.
Name: PORT 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Grammar, composition, translation, oral practice. Credit will be granted for only one of PORT 102 or PORT 110.
Name: PORT 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: A single-term alternative to PORT 101 and 102 for students with heritage Portuguese or another Romance language. Credit will be granted for only one of PORT 110, PORT 101, or PORT 102.
Name: PORT 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Grammar, composition, translation, oral practice, readings. Credit will be granted for only one of PORT 201 or PORT 210
Name: PORT 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: Grammar, composition, translation, oral practice, readings. Credit may be granted for only one of PORT 202 or PORT 210.
Name: PORT 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: A single-term alternative to PORT 201 and 202 for students with heritage Portuguese or another Romance language. Credit will be granted for only one of PORT 210, PORT 201, or PORT 202.
Name: PORT 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced work in composition for students who have reached the Language-Requirement level of Portuguese.
Name: PORT 392 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PORT 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics on Portuguese and Brazilian Culture. Please refer to section details for up to date course offering information. This course is taught in English.
Name: POLS 300 Credits: 6 Desciption: Intermediate oral practice, grammar, reading, composition.
Name: POLS 426 Credits: 3 Desciption: The German Nazi Holocaust in Polish Literature and film.
Name: POLI 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: Political issues and case studies, drawn from Canadian and international contexts, will be used to introduce students to central debates and concepts of politics and political analysis.
Name: POLI 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of the institutions and processes of Canadian government.
Name: POLI 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: The logic, challenges, and major strategies of empirical political research. Core research tasks including: asking answerable questions, defining concepts, formulating hypotheses, gathering evidence, measuring variables, constructing comparisons, drawing causal inferences, and reporting findings.
Name: POLI 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: A comparative analysis of foreign governments. Specific countries to be covered will vary according to section; consult the brochure issued by the Department.
Name: POLI 240 Credits: 3 Desciption: A critical introduction to some major ideologies and traditions of Western political thought that examines their philosophical origins as well as their implications for political life.
Name: POLI 260 Credits: 3 Desciption: Applies conceptual tools to topics such as war, conflict management, the global economy, poverty, and civil society.
Name: POLI 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and practice of federalism; cultural duality, social stresses, and problems of flexibility. The constitution and role of the courts.
Name: POLI 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of the party system, and other institutions and processes of the British Columbia political system.
Name: POLI 308A Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of one or more major issues in Canadian politics (e.g., the Charter, electoral reform). Topics will vary from year to year.
Name: POLI 309 Credits: 3 Desciption: Key issues in the theory and practice of human rights in Canada. Topics will vary from year to year.
Name: POLI 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Parliamentary and party politics, showing how politicians in Canada and other countries strike bargains with allies, outmanoeuvre opponents in debates, and manipulate institutional rules.
Name: POLI 320A Credits: 3 Desciption: The distinctive political system of the U.S. Covers all major institutions and processes, focusing on contemporary issues. Comparisons with the Canadian system. Sources of political failure and possible reform.
Name: POLI 320B Credits: 3 Desciption: The distinctive political system of the U.S. Covers all major institutions and processes, focusing on contemporary issues. Comparisons with the Canadian system. Sources of political failure and possible reform.
Name: POLI 321A Credits: 3 Desciption: The course will explore various aspects of Chinese politics and the dynamics of Chinas development since 1949.  Topics include: the Cultural Revolution, political reform and protest, and economic reform policies and their consequences.
Name: POLI 324A Credits: 3 Desciption: The political systems of contemporary Southeast Asia.
Name: POLI 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: Post-1945 integration of Europe, comparison of national politics and attitudes to integration, and the history and institutions of the European Union.
Name: POLI 328A Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics will vary from year to year. Consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 328B Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics will vary from year to year. Consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 332 Credits: 3 Desciption: A comparative examination of democracy and authoritarianism in Latin America: populism, corporatism, bureaucratic authoritarianism, transitions from authoritarianism, and contemporary debates on the quality and diversity of democratic institutions.
Name: POLI 333A Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of a major issue in comparative politics (e.g., the media, gender, nationalism, ethnic conflict). Topics will vary from year to year.
Name: POLI 341A Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics may include freedom, colonialism, capitalism, Critical Theory and ideology, power and knowledge, social justice, rationalism, gender and identity politics, and the "political."
Name: POLI 344A Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of some of the major concepts in political philosophy such as justice, equality, rights, obligation, liberty in the context of both classical and contemporary political thought.
Name: POLI 345 Credits: 3 Desciption: The role of gender in Western political theory and the implications for the practice of politics.
Name: POLI 347A Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of law and political theory that considers topics such as sovereignty, constitutionalism, civil disobedience, rights and the political role of judges.
Name: POLI 352A Credits: 3 Desciption: Policy making across industrialized democracies, with a focus on North America and Europe.
Name: POLI 360A Credits: 3 Desciption: The contemporary international security context: reorientation of the study of security, patterns of inter- and intrastate conflict and communal violence, dilemmas of international response and conflict management.
Name: POLI 363A Credits: 3 Desciption: An analysis of Canadian foreign policy on important international issues since the 1960s and of the policy-making process. Issues may include defence commitments, economic relations, activities of international organizations, and relations with the US, Europe, USSR, Asia and the Third World.
Name: POLI 364A Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of the activities and influence of modern international organizations in international security, economic, and social issue areas. The course will focus on organizations associated with the United Nations, but other world and regional bodies will be analysed as well.
Name: POLI 366 Credits: 3 Desciption: An analysis of governmental policies and international political bargaining in regard to such issues as international investment, trade, and monetary relations. Pre-requisite: ECON 100 or 309 are recommended.
Name: POLI 367B Credits: 3 Desciption: The evolution of the international system and empirical and normative theories of international relations such as realism, liberalism, and Marxism.
Name: POLI 369A Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of issues such as interstate conflicts, terrorism, environmental change, international crime. Topics will vary from year to year.
Name: POLI 369B Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of issues such as interstate conflicts, terrorism, environmental change, international crime. Topics will vary from year to year.
Name: POLI 369D Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of issues such as interstate conflicts, terrorism, environmental change, international crime. Topics will vary from year to year.
Name: POLI 370A Credits: 3 Desciption: Problems of managing conflict in the international system (e.g., intervention, mediation, sanctions). Topics will vary from year to year.
Name: POLI 373 Credits: 3 Desciption: When is it right to wage war?  Who should pay for global warming?  Should the wealthy provide foreign aid- how much?  Analysis of traditions of moral thought to reach reasoned judgments about such dilemmas in global politics.
Name: POLI 374A Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of peacekeeping within and outside the United Nations system and as an instrument of conflict management.
Name: POLI 375A Credits: 3 Desciption: Ecological consequences of the global political economy.
Name: POLI 377 Credits: 3 Desciption: Evolution and contemporary significance of nuclear weapons and arms control policy and technology from the perspective of the physical and life sciences and the social sciences and humanities.
Name: POLI 380 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to quantitative methods as utilized in the study of Political Science. Not available for credit in the Faculty of Commerce and Business Administration.
Name: POLI 390 Credits: 6 Desciption: An examination of the dimensions of Political Science and the major debates within the discipline.
Name: POLI 402A Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminar on the origins and development of the Canadian Constitution: the political aspects of federalism and the legal consequences of the Charter of Rights.
Name: POLI 405A Credits: 3 Desciption: This seminar examines in depth some of the important issues in Canadian politics.
Name: POLI 405B Credits: 3 Desciption: This seminar examines in depth some of the important issues in Canadian politics.
Name: POLI 420B Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminar in comparative analysis of politics in democratic systems. For specific content in a given year, consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 420C Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminar in comparative analysis of politics in democratic systems. For specific content in a given year, consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 422A Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar devoted to intensive analysis of a contemporary political problem from a comparative perspective, e.g., ethnic politics, class politics, the politics of post-industrial society. For specific content in a given year, consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 422B Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar devoted to intensive analysis of a contemporary political problem from a comparative perspective, e.g., ethnic politics, class politics, the politics of post-industrial society. For specific content in a given year, consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 440A Credits: 3 Desciption: This seminar examines the political ideas of leading political philosophers of the twentieth century. Consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 440B Credits: 3 Desciption: This seminar examines the political ideas of leading political philosophers of the twentieth century. Consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 441A Credits: 3 Desciption: Approaches to political criticism: Critical Theory, Foucauldian genealogy, critical realism, and feminism, including forms of domination, which shape people's beliefs and self-conceptions.
Name: POLI 449A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 460A Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar devoted to the analysis of the foreign policies of one or more states, as well as to the study of literature pertaining to foreign policy analysis. For specific content in a given year, consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 460B Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar devoted to the analysis of the foreign policies of one or more states, as well as to the study of literature pertaining to foreign policy analysis. For specific content in a given year, consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar on a selected topic concerning the causes of war and strategies for the promotion of peace. For specific content in a given year, consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: This seminar examines some of the major theoretical approaches to the study of international relations. For specific content in a given year, consult the departmental website.
Name: POLI 463 Credits: 3 Desciption: This seminar analyses issues relating to the politics of international economic relations. For specific content in a given year, consult the brochure issued by the Department.
Name: POLI 464A Credits: 3 Desciption: Content varies from year to year. Consult the departmental website. One section (of 3 credits) is reserved for fourth-year students in the Major program in International Relations.
Name: POLI 464B Credits: 3 Desciption: Content varies from year to year. Consult the departmental website. One section (of 3 credits) is reserved for fourth-year students in the Major program in International Relations.
Name: POLI 464C Credits: 3 Desciption: Content varies from year to year. Consult the departmental website. One section (of 3 credits) is reserved for fourth-year students in the Major program in International Relations.
Name: POLI 464D Credits: 3 Desciption: Content varies from year to year. Consult the departmental website. One section (of 3 credits) is reserved for fourth-year students in the Major program in International Relations.
Name: POLI 492 Credits: 12 Desciption: In consultation with faculty, students develop a research project, report on their project during seminars, give feedback on their fellow students' projects, and write a thesis.
Name: POLI 504A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 511A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 513A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 514B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 514D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 516A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 516B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 533A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 547A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 547B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 549A Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 549C Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 562A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 562C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 562D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 564B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 571A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 572A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 580A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 580C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 580D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 580E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 649A Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 649B Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: POLI 649C Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: PLNT 530A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PLNT 530B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PLNT 530C Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: PLNT 530D Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PLNT 530F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PLNT 530G Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PLNT 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of purification, cloning, sequencing, restriction-hybridization analysis of plant nucleic acids, in vitro labelling of plant nucleic acids and proteins, and electrophoresis and immunodetection of plant proteins. Offered by the Biotechnology Teaching Laboratory in cooperation with Plant Science. Admissions to the course is limited and requires recommendation from the Program Coordinator.
Name: PLNT 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: PLNT 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 211 Credits: 3 Desciption: Contemporary city development trends, policies, and practices across the globe as explored against the backdrop of culture and technology. Includes hands-on learning.
Name: PLAN 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploratory journey through the vast world of visualizing the city and ways of representing the built environment, including how to both interpret and use visualizations to read the city.
Name: PLAN 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: Place-based exploration of the multiple, complex and contested ways urban Indigeneity is constituted in Canada today, with opportunities for field trips and hands-on learning.
Name: PLAN 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: Considers the city as a terrain for the manifestation and mediation of social justice. Explores how the allocation of land, goods, and services in cities (re)produces social stratification, and how institutions and civil society negotiate just and unjust outcomes.
Name: PLAN 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: Evolution, practice and future of urban planning and development, with emphasis on institutional arrangements, housing, transportation, urban design and development control. For third- and fourth-year undergraduate students interested in urban planning.
Name: PLAN 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 509 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 510 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of urban design theory to a neighbourhood design.
Name: PLAN 519A Credits: 3 Desciption: Guided hands-on experience of day-to-day planning in a workplace environment.
Name: PLAN 519B Credits: 3 Desciption: Guided hands-on experience of day-to-day planning in a workplace environment.
Name: PLAN 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 522 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 523 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 524 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 525 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 526 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 527A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: PLAN 527B Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: PLAN 528A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 528B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history of housing and homelessness policies as well as current issues and challenges faced by municipalities, regional governments, non-profit housing providers, and others.
Name: PLAN 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: Natural disasters from the perspective of risk analysis, risk reduction, and planning for disaster-resilient communities. Focus primarily on Canada and the U.S. but includes disaster risk globally.
Name: PLAN 532 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and practice of developing and implementing plans for sustainable regions, cities, and neighbourhoods. Combining land use, transportation, environment, socio-economic, and financial directions, managing plan making including public participation, and writing council reports.
Name: PLAN 533 Credits: 3 Desciption: Indigenous world views; history of colonization in Canada; contemporary resurgence of Indigenous modes of planning.
Name: PLAN 534 Credits: 1 Desciption: Theory, history and capabilities behind GIS, with customized laboratory exercises that incorporate urban design and planning themes.
Name: PLAN 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: Foundations of urban travel modelling: data needs; survey and sampling techniques; model calibration and validation; discrete choice modeling; 4-step travel demand forecasting (trip generation, distribution, modal choice, and assignment); activity based models; integrated land use/transport models. Credit will be granted for only one of CIVL 441, CIVL 583, or PLAN 535.
Name: PLAN 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approach, role, style, and essential skills of practical urban planning: working at the community level; developing overall policy; managing development; undertaking urban design; and engaging in the political process.
Name: PLAN 547C Credits: 6 Desciption: Research and preparation of a professional project report on a planning topic in public policy or professional practice.
Name: PLAN 548A Credits: 3 Desciption: Each year the school may offer one or more courses on a topical issue covering recent advances in the field.
Name: PLAN 548B Credits: 1 Desciption: Each year the school may offer one or more courses on a topical issue covering recent advances in the field.
Name: PLAN 548F Credits: 2 Desciption: Each year the school may offer one or more courses on a topical issue covering recent advances in the field.
Name: PLAN 548L Credits: 3 Desciption: Each year the school may offer one or more courses on a topical issue covering recent advances in the field.
Name: PLAN 548O Credits: 1 Desciption: Each year the school may offer one or more courses on a topical issue covering recent advances in the field.
Name: PLAN 549C Credits: 12 Desciption: Research and preparation of a thesis on a topic in public policy or professional practice.
Name: PLAN 553 Credits: 3 Desciption: Laws within which Indigenous Peoples in Canada, and particularly in British Columbia, live, and which impact their communities and Nations. How law and governance inform planning with Indigenous communities.
Name: PLAN 558 Credits: 3 Desciption: This course will be taken in the first term of the Master's program.
Name: PLAN 559 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research design for SCARP thesis-based Master's students. Approaches for designing research methodologies and thesis structure. Selection processes for research focus; linking research problems to methodological sources; logics of structuring the thesis.
Name: PLAN 560 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 561 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics will vary.
Name: PLAN 579 Credits: 3 Desciption: Health issues associated with transportation and the built environment; design of urban form for non-motorized transportation for the improvement of personal and environmental health; factors that impact transportation choices; applying findings from research to specific transportation planning processes and projects. Credit will be granted for only one of PLAN 579 or SPPH 571.
Name: PLAN 580 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics include the relationship between transportation and urban activity systems; analysis of supply and demand; accessibility and environment; institutional arrangements and public finance.
Name: PLAN 587A Credits: 3 Desciption: A studio/seminar on the history of the physical form of cities and theories of city design. Topics include social impacts, heritage and environmental conservation, urban revitalization, and the legal and administrative instruments for the implementation of city designs.
Name: PLAN 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines/evaluates issues related to (1) creating plans; (2) implementing plans; and (3) evaluating plans. This is an elective course for SCARP students that build upon foundational material on plan-making that students are exposed to during the completion of required coursework.
Name: PLAN 595 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 602 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 603 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PLAN 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to fundamental concepts such as force, energy, momentum, and the use of graphs and vectors in physics; geometrical optics; electricity; laboratory exercises to familiarize the student with both the phenomena and the basic laboratory instruments commonly used to measure them. Students with credit for Physics 12 may not obtain credit for this course unless they took AP, IB, or A-level Physics and were offered advanced credit for PHYS 100.
Name: PHYS 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fluids, harmonic oscillator, travelling waves, standing waves, sound, and interference of light waves, including diffraction.  Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414
Name: PHYS 107 Credits: 3 Desciption: Classical mechanics including conservation laws, angular momentum of rigid bodies and simple harmonic motion, wave phenomena, with an introduction to special relativity, quantum mechanics, nuclear physics, statistical mechanics and solid state physics. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion lists: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414
Name: PHYS 108 Credits: 3 Desciption: Electricity and magnetism, electrical circuits, induction, electromagnetic waves, Maxwell's equations and applications. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion lists: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414
Name: PHYS 109 Credits: 1 Desciption: A laboratory course accompanying PHYS 108 with emphasis on data collection and analysis and experimental techniques.
Name: PHYS 117 Credits: 3 Desciption: Kinematics including curvilinear motion. Forces and Newton's laws of motion. Work-energy theorem, conservation of energy. Conservation of momentum, collisions. Torque, rotational dynamics, angular momentum. Oscillations and waves. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PHYS 118 Credits: 3 Desciption: Optics, electricity and magnetism, electric circuits, radioactivity, including biological applications. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PHYS 119 Credits: 1 Desciption: Introductory laboratory course, with emphasis on data collection, data analysis techniques, and scientific reasoning. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PHYS 157 Credits: 3 Desciption: Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PHYS 158 Credits: 3 Desciption: Electricity and magnetism, DC and AC circuits, optics. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PHYS 159 Credits: 1 Desciption: A laboratory course with emphasis on experimental design, measurement and analysis techniques. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414
Name: PHYS 170 Credits: 3 Desciption: Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics:  Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.  Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PHYS 200 Credits: 4 Desciption: Special relativity: Lorentz transformation, dynamics and conservation laws. Quantum physics: the experimental evidence for quantization; a qualitative discussion of the concepts of quantum mechanics and their application to simple systems of atoms and nuclei.
Name: PHYS 203 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fundamentals of thermodynamics and statistical physics; entropy, laws of thermodynamics, heat engines, free energy, phase transitions, Boltzmann statistics, quantum statistics.
Name: PHYS 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to UNIX/Linux; software tools for processing, fitting and displaying data; numerical methods and application in the physical sciences.
Name: PHYS 216 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of kinematics, Newton's laws, angular momentum and fixed axis rotation. Rigid body motion, central forces, non-inertial frames of reference. Introduction to Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics.
Name: PHYS 219 Credits: 2 Desciption: Analog electronics and amplifiers, digital electronics, analog-to-digital converters and an introduction to use of computers in data analysis and simulations.
Name: PHYS 229 Credits: 1 Desciption: Thermodynamics experiments, modern physics experiments and use of computers in data analysis.
Name: PHYS 298 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Normally taken during the winter term of the second year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Physics.
Name: PHYS 299 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Normally taken during the summer following the second year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Physics.
Name: PHYS 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Maxwell's equations and their applications, electrical fields and potentials of static charge distributions, current, fields of moving charges, magnetic fields, electromagnetic induction.
Name: PHYS 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and applications of quantum mechanics, wave mechanics, the Schroedinger equation, expectation values, Hermitian operators, commuting observables,  one-dimensional systems, harmonic oscillators, angular momentum, three dimensional systems, time dependent perturbations. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PHYS 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical principles involved in biological systems at the microscopic and molecular scales. Diffusion, low Reynolds number dynamics, the physicist's view of biomolecular structure, models of molecular motors and membranes.
Name: PHYS 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: Variational calculus, Lagrangian dynamics, rigid body motion including free and forced precession, Hamiltonian mechanics, Poisson brackets, canonical coordinates, Hamilton-Jacobi theory, action angle variables. Introduction to dynamical chaos: determinism, Lyapunov exponents.
Name: PHYS 309 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected experiments in electromagnetism and electronics; computer data acquisition; advanced data analysis and simulation.
Name: PHYS 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: The application of ordinary and partial differential equations to physical problems; boundary and initial value problems associated with heat, wave and Laplace equations. Fourier analysis; expansions in Bessel and Legendre functions. Credit will be granted for only one of PHYS 312 and MATH 316.
Name: PHYS 315 Credits: 3 Desciption: Crystal structure, elasticity and phonons, elementary electronic transport, defects, alloys, liquid crystals and polymers.
Name: PHYS 319 Credits: 3 Desciption: A project-oriented lab introducing the design and construction of microprocessor-controlled devices.
Name: PHYS 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: The fundamental physics behind global issues of energy use and climate change.  Not to be used to satisfy an upper-level specialization requirement in any Physics and Astronomy major or honours specialization, but may be used as an upper-level science elective.
Name: PHYS 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ancient Greek ideas of substance and forms and modern concepts of forces and fields. The twentieth-century quantum revolution. The modern universe, from quarks and atoms to the big bang. Quantum paradoxes. Not for credit in the faculties of Science and Applied Science. No mathematics required.
Name: PHYS 341 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the physical principles important to the production, transmission and perception of musical sounds. The treatment will be non-mathematical; with emphasis on demonstrations. Topics may include the description of sound waves, resonances, scales, physics of hearing, examination of specific musical instruments, etc. Not for credit in the Faculties of Science and Applied Science.
Name: PHYS 348 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current research topics in physics and astronomy are investigated and explored. Technical communication and research skills are studied and developed via oral presentations and written scientific reports on these current research topics.
Name: PHYS 349 Credits: 3 Desciption: A research project, undertaken under the direction of a faculty member, culminating in a written report. This course requires  approval of the course instructor  and  program  advisor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy.
Name: PHYS 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of principles. Particle mechanics: Euler's equations, tops and gyroscopes, motion of the Earth, Lagrangian and Hamiltonian methods. Variational principles in optics and mechanics, Liouville's theorem and statistical mechanics. The relationship between classical and quantum mechanics.
Name: PHYS 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Normally taken during the summer following the third year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Physics.
Name: PHYS 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Standard model, classification of elementary particles and forces of nature, symmetries, conservation laws, quark model, quantum electrodynamics, quantum chromodynamics, and the theory of weak interactions.
Name: PHYS 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Applications of Maxwell's theory. Wave propagation in dielectrics, conductors and plasmas, wave guides, radiation, antennae, and special relativity.
Name: PHYS 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Spin and angular momentum addition, perturbation methods, and applications in the fields of Atomic, Molecular, Nuclear, and Solid State Physics.
Name: PHYS 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and applications of  statistical mechanics. Ideal gases, degenerate Fermi gases, Bose-Einstein condensation, black body radiation, fluctuations and phase transitions. Credit will be granted for only one of PHYS 403 or PHYS 455. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PHYS 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Radiotherapy, X-ray imaging, nuclear medicine, magnetic resonance imaging and biomedical optics.
Name: PHYS 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical and chemical interactions of ionizing radiations and their biological effects at the cellular, tissue and whole-animal levels. Credit will be granted for only one of PHYS 405 or PHYS 536. See the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: PHYS 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical consequences of Einstein's equations, including the principle of equivalence, curved space-time, geodesics, the Schwarzschild solution, deflection of light, black holes, and gravitational radiation.
Name: PHYS 408 Credits: 4 Desciption: Principles and applications of optical physics. Interference, diffraction, coherence, polarization, Fresnel relations, optical coatings, waves in dielectric media, Gaussian beams, waveguides, optical cavities, lasers, fibre optics, and Fourier optics.
Name: PHYS 409A Credits: 3 Desciption: A laboratory course with a wide choice of experiments for fourth year Honours and Major students. Topics include solid state, nuclear, classical, quantum, electromagnetic and low temperature physics. For six credits, two weekly laboratory periods and completion of a project in second term are required.
Name: PHYS 409B Credits: 3 Desciption: A laboratory course with a wide choice of experiments for fourth year Honours and Major students. Topics include solid state, nuclear, classical, quantum, electromagnetic and low temperature physics. For six credits, two weekly laboratory periods and completion of a project in second term are required.
Name: PHYS 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Scientific programming applied to problems in physics. Fundamentals of numerical analysis for continuum problems. Solution of linear and non-linear algebraic systems, ordinary differential equations and stochastic problems.
Name: PHYS 420C Credits: 3 Desciption: The students will prepare, under the supervision of a faculty member, a demonstration or series of demonstrations intended to illustrate physical principles to diverse audiences. Intended for third- or fourth-year Physics Majors and Math/Science Education students.
Name: PHYS 438 Credits: 3 Desciption: Animal systems viewed from a physicist's perspective. Topics include sensory systems, energy budgets, locomotion, internal flows, physical advantages of grouping.
Name: PHYS 447A Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed studies available to students in Honours Physics with approval from the Head of the Department.
Name: PHYS 447B Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed studies available to students in Honours Physics with approval from the Head of the Department.
Name: PHYS 447C Credits: 6 Desciption: Directed studies available to students in Honours Physics with approval from the Head of the Department.
Name: PHYS 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: A research project, undertaken under the direction of a faculty member, culminating in a thesis.
Name: PHYS 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Radioactive decay and radiations, nuclear properties, interactions of neutrons, physical principles of power reactors, nuclear fusion, radiation monitoring, and safety.
Name: PHYS 474 Credits: 3 Desciption: Symmetry of crystal structures, reciprocal lattice, band theory, conduction in metals and semiconductors, phonons and superconductivity.
Name: PHYS 490 Credits: 3 Desciption: Self-directed, collaborative studies, in a group-learning environment, initiated and coordinated by senior undergraduate students with the supervision of a faculty advisor. Course structure, enrolment, and delivery methods will comply with the "Handbook for Student Directed Seminars".  Cannot be used as a specialization requirement in any PHYS and/or ASTR specialization.
Name: PHYS 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Normally taken during the fall term of the fourth year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Physics.
Name: PHYS 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Normally taken during the summer following the fourth year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Physics.
Name: PHYS 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: Non-relativistic quantum mechanics with applications to atomic, nuclear and particle physics. Perturbation theory, multielectron atoms, molecular structure, WKB, scattering theory.
Name: PHYS 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Time-dependent perturbation theory, density matrix formalism, NMR, emission and absorption of radiation. Elementary field theory techniques for many body systems. Quasiparticles, phonons, magnons, holes. Relativistic Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations.
Name: PHYS 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: One-electron theory of solids, energy bands, lattice vibration, transport theory.
Name: PHYS 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interacting electrons, electron-phonon interaction, Hubbard model, magnetism, superconductivity, use of Green functions.
Name: PHYS 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: Boundary-value problems, Green's functions and multipole expansions, magnetostatics, Faraday's law of induction, retarded potentials, Poynting's theorem and conservation laws, gauge invariance. Propagation of electromagnetic waves. Presentation of radiation from moving charges, classical electron theory.
Name: PHYS 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 509C Credits: 3 Desciption: Estimation of parameters from experimental measurements; maximum likelihood; least squares; tests of significance (chi square, etc). Noise properties of common devices. Extracting signals from noise; signal averaging; auto and cross-correlation, etc.
Name: PHYS 513C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mean field theory, Landau theory of phase transitions, critical phenomena, renormalization theory. Monte Carlo method, linear response theory, fluctuations.
Name: PHYS 520A Credits: 1 Desciption: Foundations of physics and astronomy education research, lesson plans, development of grading, effective questioning, effective presentations, methods in peer evaluation, and peer teaching.
Name: PHYS 520B Credits: 2 Desciption: Foundations of physics and astronomy education research, lesson plans, development of grading, effective questioning, effective presentations, methods in peer evaluation, and peer teaching.
Name: PHYS 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 527B Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics from current nuclear theory.
Name: PHYS 529B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 534 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of dosimetry of ionizing radiation with emphasis on applications to radiotherapy and radiobiology.
Name: PHYS 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: A continuation of PHYS 534, including an extension of the topics discussed in that course.
Name: PHYS 536 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of PHYS 536 or PHYS 405.
Name: PHYS 539 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 543 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 545 Credits: 3 Desciption: Restricted to graduate students in the M.Sc. (Medical Physics) Specialization.
Name: PHYS 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 555A Credits: 2 Desciption: With approval of the department head, advanced studies under the direction of a staff member may be arranged in special cases.
Name: PHYS 555B Credits: 3 Desciption: With approval of the department head, advanced studies under the direction of a staff member may be arranged in special cases.
Name: PHYS 555C Credits: 4 Desciption: With approval of the department head, advanced studies under the direction of a staff member may be arranged in special cases.
Name: PHYS 555F Credits: 1 Desciption: With approval of the department head, advanced studies under the direction of a staff member may be arranged in special cases.
Name: PHYS 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: Injectors, radio frequency acceleration, superconducting acceleration elements, beam dynamics, and applications of electron accelerators.
Name: PHYS 571 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of ASTR 403 or PHYS 571.
Name: PHYS 599A Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: PHYS 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: PHYL 511C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PHYL 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYL 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYL 523 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYL 524 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYL 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYL 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYL 532 Credits: 3 Desciption: Offered in odd numbered years.
Name: PHYL 548A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYL 548B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHYL 548C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 511 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 514 Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 516 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 521 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 524 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 526 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 528 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 531 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 544 Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 545 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 548 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 552 Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 554 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 564 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 565 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 566 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 574 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: PHTH 576 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/fail.
Name: PHTH 580 Credits: 9 Desciption: Restricted to students in the Graduate Certificate in Orthopaedic Manipulative Physical Therapy program.
Name: PHTH 581 Credits: 3 Desciption: Restricted to students in the Graduate Certificate in Orthopaedic Manipulative Physical Therapy program.
Name: PHRM 100 Credits: 18 Desciption: Scientific concepts and pharmacy practice principles. Role of the pharmacist, patient assessment skills, professional identity, communication skills, and an understanding of legal and ethical responsibilities.
Name: PHRM 111 Credits: 15 Desciption: Modules and integration activities focusing on: an introduction to infectious diseases; musculoskeletal disorders; dermatology; eyes, ears, nose, and throat disorders; and hematology.
Name: PHRM 131 Credits: 2 Desciption: Principles of clinical study design, focusing on biostatistical foundations, randomized controlled trials, and systematic review of randomized controlled trials.
Name: PHRM 141 Credits: 2 Desciption: Current and future roles for pharmacists and controversies in pharmacy practice.
Name: PHRM 161 Credits: 2 Desciption: Knowledge and skills related to the role and applications of technology in health care.
Name: PHRM 211 Credits: 15 Desciption: Modules and integration activities focusing on respirology and cardiovascular disorders.
Name: PHRM 212 Credits: 15 Desciption: Modules and integration activities focusing on nephrology, endocrinology, and neurology.
Name: PHRM 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: Foundations of nutrition, nutrition for healthy individuals through the lifespan, and selected clinical applications of nutrition in pharmacy practice.
Name: PHRM 231 Credits: 2 Desciption: Principles of clinical study design, focusing on epidemiologic studies (cohort, case-control), pharmacoeconomic analyses, non-inferiority designs, clinical prediction rules, and guidelines.
Name: PHRM 241 Credits: 2 Desciption: Current and future roles for pharmacists and controversies in pharmacy practice, focusing on the roles and training opportunities for pharmacists in specialty areas of outpatient and inpatient practice.
Name: PHRM 251 Credits: 1 Desciption: Preparation for experiential learning in the hospital setting. Focuses on enhancing familiarity with the care environment and developing skills suited for students to apply to patient care during institutional experiential rotations.
Name: PHRM 311 Credits: 12 Desciption: Modules and integration activities focusing on psychiatry; gastroenterology disorders; and oncology and palliative care.
Name: PHRM 312 Credits: 12 Desciption: Modules and integration activities focusing on special infectious diseases; obstetrics, gynecology, sexual health, and genito-urinary disorders; and toxicology.
Name: PHRM 341 Credits: 2 Desciption: Current and potential roles for pharmacists, and contemporary issues in pharmacy practice. Focus on the role of pharmacists as patient educators, researchers and collaborators in interprofessional teams.
Name: PHRM 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of management and leadership principles and skills to pharmacy operations.
Name: PHRM 361 Credits: 1 Desciption: Training for authorization to administer injections
Name: PHIL 100 Credits: 6 Desciption: Basic problems and methods of Philosophy. Topics such as the existence of God, the nature and scope of human knowledge, the relationship between mind and body, personal identity, free will, issues and problems in moral philosophy. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 100 and either or both PHIL 101 or PHIL 102.
Name: PHIL 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic problems and methods of philosophy. Topics such as the nature and scope of human knowledge, the existence of God, and the relationship between mind and body. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 100 or PHIL 101.
Name: PHIL 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic problems and methods of philosophy. Topics such as morality, personal identity, free will and determinism, and the meaning of life. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 100 or PHIL 102.
Name: PHIL 120 Credits: 3 Desciption: Tools for dealing with both everyday and more technical arguments and concepts. Analysis and resolution of confusions, ambiguities, and fallacies. This course is restricted to students with fewer than 90 credits.
Name: PHIL 125 Credits: 3 Desciption: Historical and logical analysis of various types of scientific hypotheses and the data that support or undermine them. This course is restricted to students with fewer than 90 credits.
Name: PHIL 211 Credits: 3 Desciption: The Pre-Socratics; Socrates; Sophists; Plato.  Recommended as preparation for PHIL 310.
Name: PHIL 212 Credits: 3 Desciption: Aristotle; selections from Hellenistic and Late Antique Philosophy. Recommended as preparation for PHIL 310.
Name: PHIL 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sentential and predicate logic. Translation from natural language; truth tables and interpretations; systems of natural deduction up to relational predicate logic with identity; alternative proof methods. Some sections may use computer-based materials and tests.
Name: PHIL 230 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories of obligation and value; moral reasoning; normative ethics, descriptive ethics and meta-ethics. Readings in classic and contemporary texts.
Name: PHIL 235 Credits: 3 Desciption: Moral issues such as life and death decisions, paternalism, markets, animal welfare, technology, and global justice.
Name: PHIL 240 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics in epistemology such as skepticism, truth, justification, a priori and a posteriori knowledge. Readings from classic and contemporary texts.
Name: PHIL 250 Credits: 3 Desciption: Philosophical and theoretical issues that pertain to how mental phenomena fit into the material world. Examine questions such as whether a sophisticated enough computer should be deemed a conscious intelligent being. Focus on philosophical literature on consciousness, intelligence, animal minds, and the mind-body relation. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 250 or PHIL 150.
Name: PHIL 260 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the historical development, conceptual foundations, and cultural significance of contemporary science. Themes will vary from year to year.
Name: PHIL 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of Plato's dialogues and his influence on subsequent philosophy.
Name: PHIL 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of Aristotle's writings and his influence on subsequent philosophy.
Name: PHIL 314 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of 17th-century philosophy from Bacon to Leibniz, including the writings of Hobbes, Descartes, and Spinoza. The influence of science and religion on philosophical thought.
Name: PHIL 315 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of 18th-century philosophy from Locke to Kant, including the writings of Berkeley, Rousseau, and Hume. The influence of science and religion on philosophy.
Name: PHIL 316 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of 19th and 20th century philosophy. May include Hegel, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Mill, Meinong, Brentano, the British Idealists, Russell, and Moore. Social and political currents in 19th century philosophical thought.
Name: PHIL 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of PHIL 220. A system of deduction for predicate logic is selected for further study. Completeness of this system and other metatheoretic results are proved. Other topics include computability, recursive function theory, incompleteness and decidability.
Name: PHIL 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: Formal methods relevant to probabilistic and inductive reasoning. Decision theory, game theory, axiomatic probability theory and its interpretations, belief dynamics, simulation and modelling.
Name: PHIL 326 Credits: 3 Desciption: Philosophical discussion of language, meaning, and communication. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 326 or PHIL 425.
Name: PHIL 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories of political and legal obligation and authority, legal reasoning, society and the state. Readings in classic and contemporary texts.
Name: PHIL 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: Moral problems in contemporary business and professional practice, general moral theory, the law, and policy formation. Corporate social and environmental responsibility, employee rights, preferential hiring and affirmative action programs, conflicts of interest, advertising, "whistle blowing" and self-regulation. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 331 or PHIL 434.
Name: PHIL 332 Credits: 3 Desciption: Moral problems arising in the context of human relationships to nature and to non-human living things, considered in terms of both general moral theory and policy formation. Topics include moral standing, animal rights, obligations to future generations, pollution, hazardous materials, the depletion of natural resources and the treatment of non-human living things. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 332 or PHIL 435.
Name: PHIL 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Moral problems arising in the health sciences, especially in medicine but also in biology, psychology, and social work. Topics include abortion, death and euthanasia, genetic engineering, behaviour modification, compulsory treatment, experimentation with human beings and animals, and the relationship between professionals and their patients, subjects or clients. No philosophical background is required. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 333 or PHIL 433.
Name: PHIL 334 Credits: 3 Desciption: Relationship between sex, gender, and philosophy. Topics may include ethics, epistemology, science, social relations, law, and personhood.
Name: PHIL 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: Philosophical approaches to historical problems of inequality and social harm, with readings drawn from historical and contemporary sources. Topics to be studied may include slavery, colonialism, labour, and the position of women in society.
Name: PHIL 338 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts of law, constitution and sovereignty; law and morality; natural law theories and legal positivism; obligation, responsibility, and punishment.
Name: PHIL 339 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics include art and perception, art and reality, imagination, expression, censorship, and the role of art in human life.
Name: PHIL 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics in metaphysics such as the nature of physical reality, personal identity, the mind/body problem, free will, causation and action theory. Readings from classic and contemporary texts.
Name: PHIL 347 Credits: 3 Desciption: A critical and analytical examination of arguments for and arguments against the existence of God, and other related topics. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 347 or PHIL 349.
Name: PHIL 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of historical, conceptual and methodological conditions of scientific knowledge through detailed consideration of important episodes in the history of science.
Name: PHIL 362 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of economic thought from Aristotle to Adam Smith, focusing primarily on the conceptual foundations of economics, particularly the problems of value, distribution, and economic growth.
Name: PHIL 363 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of economic thought from David Ricardo up to the present, including such figures as Malthus, Mill, Jevons, and Keynes, focusing primarily on the conceptual foundations of economics, particularly the problems of value, distribution and growth.
Name: PHIL 364 Credits: 3 Desciption: Darwin and the science of evolution in nineteenth and early twentieth century.
Name: PHIL 369 Credits: 3 Desciption: Issues common to all sciences. Philosophical questions including the character of scientific laws, theories and revolutions, the nature of scientific confirmation, causality, explanation and prediction, and the use of logic and probability. Difficulties in the interpretation of atomic physics and questions about relationships between biology and psychology. No philosophical background is assumed. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 369 or PHIL 460.
Name: PHIL 375 Credits: 3 Desciption: Philosophical issues in works of literature or arising from theories of literary interpretation. Topics include issues relating to relativism, the nature of morality, free will, personal identity, the nature of the emotions.
Name: PHIL 385 Credits: 3 Desciption: Meaning, identity and alienation as explored in the works for example of Kierkegaard, Dostoyevsky, Tolstoy, Sartre, and Camus.
Name: PHIL 388 Credits: 3 Desciption: Debates on issues of epistemology, language and ontology among the philosophical schools or systems of classical India Nagarjuna, Bhartrhari, Uma-svati, Sankara and others.
Name: PHIL 390 Credits: 6 Desciption: For students in third-year Honours.
Name: PHIL 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of Kant's critical philosophy.
Name: PHIL 418 Credits: 3 Desciption: Intensive study of a major philosopher such as Wittgenstein, Russell, or Heidegger, or school, such as pragmatism or logical empiricism.
Name: PHIL 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: Classic or contemporary works in ethical theory.
Name: PHIL 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: The contribution of the senses to knowledge of the external world; the nature of perception and its contribution to empirical knowledge.
Name: PHIL 448 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of European philosophers from amongst Husserl, Heidegger, Habermas, Foucault, Derrida, Lacan, Levinas, and others. Credit will be granted for only one of PHIL 448 or PHIL 449.
Name: PHIL 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: The nature of the mental and physical; the relation between minds and bodies; the character of psychological explanation.
Name: PHIL 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics in the philosophy of science of special concern to the social and behavioural sciences; hypotheses and explanation; principles, theories, models; the formation of scientific concepts; the function of mathematics in social science.
Name: PHIL 487 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 489 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 490 Credits: 6 Desciption: For students in fourth-year Honours.
Name: PHIL 491 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected problems in philosophy, with attention to methods of research. Check with the department for specific topics. Primarily for fourth-year Philosophy Major students, but also open to Philosophy Honours.
Name: PHIL 514A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 518A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 525A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 530A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 536A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 540A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 551A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 560A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 585 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: PHIL 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of management principles to pharmacy operations.
Name: PHAR 403 Credits: 1 Desciption: Training for authorization to administer injections.
Name: PHAR 405B Credits: 3 Desciption: Individual assignments involving library and clinical investigation of specific problems relating to drug utilization and information topics.
Name: PHAR 405D Credits: 6 Desciption: Individual assignments involving library and clinical investigation of specific problems relating to drug utilization and information topics.
Name: PHAR 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pharmacist knowledge and skills in relation to current issues in drug safety.
Name: PHAR 408 Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures and discussions of topics on the application of pharmacokinetic principles and the use of therapeutic drug level monitoring in clinical pharmacy practice.
Name: PHAR 409 Credits: 3 Desciption: Case-based approach to the pathophysiology, pharmacology, clinical pharmacokinetics, and pharmacotherapy in nephrology with emphasis on the integration and application of fundamental principles to clinical situations in class and during their experiential component.
Name: PHAR 414 Credits: 6 Desciption: Individual assignments involving library and laboratory investigation of problems involved in the development of pharmaceutical dosage forms.
Name: PHAR 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: A multidisciplinary course dealing with basic mechanisms and the clinical management of acute and chronic pain.
Name: PHAR 444 Credits: 6 Desciption: Individual assignments involving library and laboratory investigation of certain aspects of drug action.
Name: PHAR 448 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic principles of toxicology; toxicity of pharmaceuticals, and precision medicine approaches to mitigate toxicity.
Name: PHAR 450B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 450F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 450H Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 450I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 450J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 450K Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 450L Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 450M Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 450N Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 453B Credits: 3 Desciption: Individual assignments involving library and field work investigations of problems associated with pharmacy practice.
Name: PHAR 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and methods of economic assessments to determine the value of health technologies, with a focus on pharmaceuticals and services provided by pharmacists.
Name: PHAR 457 Credits: 3 Desciption: Aboriginal health in Canada and the role a culturally-competent pharmacist can have in collaborating with other health professionals and Aboriginal communities in providing care and healing.
Name: PHAR 458 Credits: 3 Desciption: Common oncological diseases and their drug treatment.
Name: PHAR 479 Credits: 12 Desciption: A 320-hour pharmacy clerkship emphasizing integration of knowledge and skills in developing and assessing therapeutic plans for patients in community practice.
Name: PHAR 489 Credits: 6 Desciption: A 160-hour pharmacy clerkship emphasizing integration of knowledge and skills in developing and assessing therapeutic plans for patients in institutional practice.
Name: PHAR 499 Credits: 5 Desciption: Case studies and other activities integrating scientific and clinical concepts.
Name: PHAR 501 Credits: 12 Desciption: Pharmacotherapeutic intervention in selected acute and chronic diseases and disorders. Emphasis is on recommendations for and monitoring of drug therapy.
Name: PHAR 502 Credits: 4 Desciption: Models of linear and dose-dependent systems in pharmacokinetics including sustained release, volumes of distribution, drug clearance, metabolite kinetics, multiple dosing and computer modelling.
Name: PHAR 506 Credits: 6 Desciption: Identification, evaluation, and application of evidence relevant to improving clinical pharmacy practice and patient care.
Name: PHAR 508 Credits: 4 Desciption: Pharmacokinetic applications in therapeutic drug monitoring and patient care; specific drugs and disease states; effects of age and concomitant drug administration.
Name: PHAR 510C Credits: 6 Desciption: A study of physical and chemical properties of pharmaceutical systems with emphasis on formulation and preparative aspects.
Name: PHAR 511E Credits: 6 Desciption: A study of problems in pharmaceutics with emphasis on biopharmaceutical aspects.
Name: PHAR 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Nano-sized drug delivery systems and their interactions with biological systems.
Name: PHAR 533A Credits: 12 Desciption: Required clinical rotations of four weeks' duration in selected specialty areas in medicine and clinical pharmacy.
Name: PHAR 534T Credits: 12 Desciption: Elective clinical rotations of 4 weeks' duration in hospital, office or clinic locations.
Name: PHAR 535 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 540C Credits: 4 Desciption: Lectures and supervised studies in selected areas of pharmacology. Enrolment restricted.
Name: PHAR 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: A course comprised of lectures, assigned readings and reports on selected topics dealing with drug actions in the central nervous system. Given in alternate years. Permission of instructor required.
Name: PHAR 543 Credits: 3 Desciption: A laboratory course giving instruction in the methods and techniques used in pharmacological research. Registration limited.
Name: PHAR 545 Credits: 3 Desciption: A course composed of lectures, assigned readings and conferences dealing with aspects of drug actions and cardiovascular function. Topics include the role of adenylate cyclase in cardiac function, the role of calcium in myocardial contractility and the effect of drugs on myocardial and vascular function. Enrolment restricted. Given in alternate years.
Name: PHAR 548 Credits: 2 Desciption: Attendance at regular seminars throughout the session and presentation of one or more papers on selected topics.
Name: PHAR 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 550A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 550B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 550C Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 550E Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 550F Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 554 Credits: 3 Desciption: Institutional, professional and regulatory factors that influence the planning, implementation and control of pharmacy services in hospitals. Permission of instructor required.
Name: PHAR 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: Economic evaluation of health technologies, considering, in detail, the policy context for the use of economic evaluation.
Name: PHAR 570 Credits: 2 Desciption: Principles of and clinical experience in physical assessment of patients for monitoring of drug efficacy and toxicity; interpretation of objective patient data by the clinical pharmacist.
Name: PHAR 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 591 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 592B Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: PHAR 648 Credits: 2 Desciption: Attendance at regular seminars throughout the session and presentation of one or more papers on selected topics.
Name: PHAR 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: PERS 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic vocabulary and the fundamentals of modern Persian grammar, structure, and pronunciation, as well as reading, writing, listening, and speaking.
Name: PERS 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of PERS 100.
Name: PERS 104 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading and writing of standard Tehran Persian; lexical and syntactic differences between written and spoken Persian.  This course prepares students for PERS 300.
Name: PERS 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Graded reading, writing, exposure to the writing system, textual history, newspaper reading, and translation. Cultural materials presented as appropriate. The art of calligraphy introduced.
Name: PERS 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Literary works from mid-19th century to present. Restricted to native or heritage speakers of Persian.
Name: PCTH 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introductory principles of drug action. Historical and present day medical and non-medical use of drugs.
Name: PCTH 300 Credits: 6 Desciption: The concepts, language and techniques of scientific pharmacology. Intended primarily for Honours and Major students in Pharmacology.
Name: PCTH 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of experimental demonstrations and individual laboratory experiments illustrating the basic principles of pharmacology.
Name: PCTH 305 Credits: 6 Desciption: Lectures and assigned reading on the effects, mechanisms of action, absorption, distribution, fate and excretion of major classes of therapeutic agents. Indications for the use of particular drugs will be discussed in terms of risk versus benefit for the individual and for society.
Name: PCTH 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: The principles and applications underlying the action and disposition of therapeutic agents (including alternative medicines) in the body.  Use of drugs as tools in experimental research.
Name: PCTH 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Pharmacology.
Name: PCTH 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Pharmacology.
Name: PCTH 400 Credits: 6 Desciption: Lectures and discussions in scientific pharmacology. All aspects of the study of drugs will be covered, but the course will concentrate on the scientific aspects of the pharmacology of neurohumoral transmission, mathematics of pharmacology, cardiovascular and clinical pharmacology, and to a lesser extent on the pharmacology of various organs and tissues.
Name: PCTH 402 Credits: 6 Desciption: A series of demonstrated, group, and individual laboratory experiments designed to illustrate the concepts and hypotheses of pharmacology. The course is restricted to Honours students in Pharmacology, but may be taken by others with permission of the department head.
Name: PCTH 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: The techniques, including methods of statistical analysis, used to detect and measure the actions of endogenous or exogenous chemicals, using chemical assays and bioassays as appropriate. Enrolment limited to students in Pharmacology and others with permission of the department head.
Name: PCTH 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced investigation of a specific topic in Pharmacology.
Name: PCTH 448E Credits: 6 Desciption: Advanced investigation of a specific topic in Pharmacology.
Name: PCTH 449A Credits: 3 Desciption: A research problem directed by a faculty member. Restricted to Honours Pharmacology students.
Name: PCTH 449C Credits: 6 Desciption: A research problem directed by a faculty member. Restricted to Honours Pharmacology students.
Name: PCTH 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Pharmacology.
Name: PCTH 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Normally taken during the summer after fourth year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Pharmacology.
Name: PCTH 502 Credits: 4 Desciption: Lectures, discussions and assigned reading on the actions of drugs on the production, release and cellular effects of hormones and neurotransmitters. Given in odd-numbered and alternate years.
Name: PCTH 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of lectures, tutorials and exercises designed to improve student skills in the design and statistical analyses of pharmacological experiments.
Name: PCTH 513 Credits: 4 Desciption: Pharmacology of drugs used in anaesthesia. Conferences, assigned reading and laboratory exercises demonstrating the actions of drugs as currently applied in the practice of anaesthesia.
Name: PCTH 514 Credits: 1 Desciption: To give students experience in the presentation of data and to enhance communication skills in the discussion of scientific topics. All students will present at least one seminar during their graduate work and would be expected to attend all seminars.
Name: PCTH 548A Credits: 2 Desciption: In special cases, with the approval of the department head, advanced courses may be arranged.
Name: PCTH 548B Credits: 3 Desciption: In special cases, with the approval of the department head, advanced courses may be arranged.
Name: PCTH 548C Credits: 3 Desciption: In special cases, with the approval of the department head, advanced courses may be arranged.
Name: PCTH 548D Credits: 6 Desciption: In special cases, with the approval of the department head, advanced courses may be arranged.
Name: PCTH 548E Credits: 3 Desciption: In special cases, with the approval of the department head, advanced courses may be arranged.
Name: PCTH 548F Credits: 4 Desciption: In special cases, with the approval of the department head, advanced courses may be arranged.
Name: PCTH 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: PCTH 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: PATH 300 Credits: 6 Desciption: Introductory lectures and laboratory sessions in clinical chemistry, haematology and blood banking, hospital microbiology, preparation and examination of tissue sections. For Medical Laboratory Science students without previous experience in hospital laboratories.
Name: PATH 301 Credits: 4 Desciption: An integrated approach to specific areas of the theoretical and practical aspects of those physical and biological sciences relevant to medical laboratory science. Emphasis will be placed upon the application of basic science to those clinical disciplines practised by the medical laboratory scientist, e.g., histochemistry, clinical chemistry, microbiology, haematology, etc.
Name: PATH 303 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fundamentals of human genetics and molecular biology as they relate to studying and detecting disease in a population; tissue culture techniques to assess cell viabilities; cytomorphology principles in disease detection.
Name: PATH 304 Credits: 4 Desciption: An advanced lecture and laboratory course in the microscopic structure of the human body necessary for a complete understanding of histochemistry and histopathology.
Name: PATH 305 Credits: 4 Desciption: A lecture and laboratory course in the theoretical and practical application of modern biological microscopes - compound, dissecting, comparison, dark ground, fluorescent, phase contrast, interference and electron microscopes.
Name: PATH 306 Credits: 2 Desciption: Control processes for workplace hazards of radiological, chemical, and biological origin.
Name: PATH 327 Credits: 6 Desciption: Descriptions of each group of human microbial pathogens according to biological attributes, clinical features, pathogenesis and pathology, epidemiology, immunological reactions, laboratory diagnosis, principles of antimicrobial therapy, preventative measures. For students in the Faculty of Medicine B.M.L.Sc.
Name: PATH 375 Credits: 3 Desciption: A lecture-demonstration course designed to acquaint students in the allied health professions with a basic understanding of the causes, natural history, and pathophysiology of common disease processes.
Name: PATH 402 Credits: 4 Desciption: A theoretical and practical examination of those modern concepts of haematology which relate to the practice of medical laboratory science.
Name: PATH 404 Credits: 6 Desciption: A lecture and laboratory course that encompasses the theory and the practice of currently available histochemical techniques. This course is to supplement the histopathological technique course taken as a requirement for CSLT (RT).
Name: PATH 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Oral and written presentation and critical appraisal of scientific papers.
Name: PATH 406 Credits: 6 Desciption: This course will review and discuss the methodology of clinical chemistry in order to put these analytical methods into the broad perspective of the pathophysiology of human disease and biochemistry.
Name: PATH 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: A theoretical and practical examination of analytical and pathophysiological aspects of clinical and forensic toxicology.
Name: PATH 408 Credits: 3 Desciption: Personnel management, staff management relationships, stock control, record keeping, etc. Medicolegal aspects of medical laboratory science. Theory and practice of quality control. Use of computers in the medical laboratory.
Name: PATH 415 Credits: 2 Desciption: Immunological events causing tissue injury.
Name: PATH 417A Credits: 3 Desciption: Students acquire content relating to the virulence factors of the bacteria and the pathophysiology of the host while working through case scenarios on their own and in online groups. Students taking this course must be willing to engage in both self-directed and small-group learning.
Name: PATH 427 Credits: 3 Desciption: This course provides the basic principles to prevent the spread of microorganisms pathogenic to humans. It may be taken towards a Certificate in Infection Control.
Name: PATH 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interactions between viruses and humans; pathogenesis; prompt virological diagnosis; rationale for antiviral chemotherapy and prophylaxis.
Name: PATH 438E Credits: 6 Desciption: Investigation of a specific topic in Medical Laboratory Science. Permission of the department head is required.
Name: PATH 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: May involve attendance at an approved institution and/or a project assigned by the instructor(s). Instructor permission required. Enrolment may be limited.
Name: PATH 467 Credits: 3 Desciption: The identification, clinical significance, and transmission of pathogenic organisms are presented. This course is available by correspondence or webCT. It may be taken towards fulfillment of the Certificate in Infection Control.
Name: PATH 477 Credits: 3 Desciption: Epidemiology, study, design and analysis, and outbreak investigation as it applies to institutional infection control.
Name: PATH 501 Credits: 2 Desciption: Microscopic anatomy of human tissues and organs in health and disease. Principles of histological analysis and applications in pathology.
Name: PATH 502 Credits: 2 Desciption: General principles of etiology, pathogenesis, disordered physiology, and anatomic pathology of common disease processes.
Name: PATH 518B Credits: 3 Desciption: A review of current topics in pulmonary pathophysiology at an advanced level suitable for graduate students majoring in pathology, medicine, surgery or anaesthesiology. Topics will include lung anatomy, ventilation, blood flow, gas and fluid exchange.
Name: PATH 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: This course focuses on molecular and cell biology of cancer and consists of a series of lectures/reviews combined with discussions and presentations by students on the topics selected by the instructors. Emphasis will be on students' presentations and discussion.
Name: PATH 535 Credits: 2 Desciption: Attendance required of all M.Sc. candidates in the Department.
Name: PATH 547 Credits: 3 Desciption: Nucleic acid purification and characterization; restriction enzyme digests; northern and southern blotting; cloning; DNA sequencing; polymerase chain reaction technology; electron microscopy; fluorescein-activated cell sorting.
Name: PATH 548C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PATH 548K Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PATH 548L Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PATH 548O Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: PATH 548P Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PATH 548Q Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: PATH 549A Credits: 18 Desciption: Honours/Pass/Fail.
Name: PATH 549B Credits: 18 Desciption: Honours/Pass/Fail.
Name: PATH 570 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pathogenesis, abnormal physiology, and therapeutic approaches in heart disease including cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, myocardial infarction, hypertension, atherosclerosis.
Name: PATH 635 Credits: 2 Desciption: Attendance required for all Ph.D. candidates in the department.
Name: PATH 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: PATH 720 Credits: 0 Desciption: Conduct of bacterial, fungal, parasitological, and viral laboratory tests relevant to the microbiological examination of patients. For medical residents.
Name: PATH 721 Credits: 0 Desciption: Conduct of research on some aspect of clinical or basic microbiology. For medical residents.
Name: PATH 725 Credits: 0 Desciption: Gross and microscopic changes associated with infections, and the pathophysiology involved in their development. The course includes seminars based on histological specimens. For residents in Medical Microbiology, General and Anatomical Pathology, and Infectious Diseases.
Name: PAED 430 Credits: 8 Desciption: In-patient experience; experience in ambulatory clinics. Clinical teaching in small groups and Academic Half-Days, which supply a series of lectures and seminars. Emphasis on acquisition of clinical skills and a knowledge base of general paediatrics. Clinical duties include patient histories, physical examinations, participation in investigation and management, following patient progress, taking part in daily rounds, and night call.
Name: OSOT 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 511 or RSOT 511.
Name: OSOT 513 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 513 or RSOT 513.
Name: OSOT 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 515 or RSOT 515.
Name: OSOT 519 Credits: 4 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 519 or RSOT 519.
Name: OSOT 525 Credits: 5 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 525 or RSOT 525.
Name: OSOT 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 527 or RSOT 527.
Name: OSOT 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 528 or RSOT 528.
Name: OSOT 545 Credits: 5 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 545 or RSOT 545.
Name: OSOT 547 Credits: 6 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 547 or RSOT 547.
Name: OSOT 549 Credits: 5 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 549 or RSOT 549.
Name: OSOT 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 551 or RSOT 551.
Name: OSOT 553 Credits: 2 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 553 or RSOT 553.
Name: OSOT 558 Credits: 9 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of OSOT 558 or RSOT 558.
Name: ORPA 508 Credits: 2 Desciption: Selected topics in orthopaedic surgery and related basic sciences. Given in alternate years.
Name: ORPA 509 Credits: 2 Desciption: The second year of the above program which will be given in alternate years.
Name: ORPA 715 Credits: 0 Desciption: Evaluation of new patients and diagnosis and treatment of appropriate diseases. Basic signs and clinical features are both stressed in the total management of the patient. Two hours per week in the Outpatient Department under supervision of an orthopaedics faculty member.
Name: ORPA 716 Credits: 0 Desciption: Evaluation of orthopaedic diseases and injuries in patients at bedside. A review of clinical features is correlated with relevant physiology and pathology.
Name: ORPA 717 Credits: 0 Desciption: Formal presentations by the orthopaedic residents, fellows, faculty and guests. Subject matter includes the whole spectrum of orthopaedics.
Name: ORPA 718 Credits: 0 Desciption: Patients with a variety of rheumatological disorders are presented for discussion and evaluation in this combined conference, which rheumatologists and orthopaedic surgeons who have a special interest in reconstructive surgery attend. During each weekly two hour session, patients with difficult management problems are presented for clinical evaluation and discussion of medical and orthopaedic treatment.
Name: ORPA 719 Credits: 0 Desciption: A course in clinical anatomy as applied to orthopaedics. A regional approach involving surgical dissections in cadavers. Each session lasts two hours. Emphasis is on surgical anatomical approach.
Name: ORPA 720 Credits: 0 Desciption: Weekly lectures by orthopaedic faculty and guest faculty from other departments. Lecture topics include applied physiology, anatomy, and pathology as they relate to orthopaedic diseases.
Name: ORPA 721 Credits: 0 Desciption: A series of seminars is given weekly, and during each 2-hour session a topic in clinical orthopaedics is reviewed. The subject matter includes the whole spectrum of orthopaedics. One or more faculty members are in attendance at each seminar.
Name: ORPA 722 Credits: 0 Desciption: Case presentation in paediatric orthopaedics, stressing history, physical findings and total management of the patient, including a review of paediatric fractures with x-rays.
Name: ORPA 723 Credits: 0 Desciption: The practical application of orthopaedics in the operating room with discussion of techniques of surgery, anatomy, pathology, pathophysiology and complications of diseases.
Name: ORPA 724 Credits: 0 Desciption: Orthopaedic traumatology is reviewed, with emphasis being placed on applied basic science, surgical anatomy, diagnosis and definitive management. These sessions are supervised by a faculty member and are held weekly, each session lasting one hour.
Name: ORPA 725 Credits: 0 Desciption: A review of musculoskeletal oncology and related problems with presentation of clinical and laboratory information, radiographs and pathological materials. One and one-half hours monthly.
Name: ORPA 904 Credits: 0 Desciption: A series of 60 seminars in orthopaedics and traumatic surgery given over a two-year period: thirty sessions in each of the two years. One evening per week throughout the Winter Session. For post-graduate students proceeding to Certification and Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.
Name: ORNT 400 Credits: 2 Desciption: A general introduction to the medical school including beliefs and values embedded within the curriculum. The overall curricular design and expectations regarding evaluation are discussed.
Name: OPTH 450 Credits: 1 Desciption: Third-year Medicine Students only. An introduction to Clinical Ophthalmology: four morning sessions introducing the third-year Medical Students to basic ophthalmic history, clinical symptoms, signs and patient management.
Name: ONCO 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ONCO 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ONCO 548A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ONCO 548B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ONCO 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: ONCO 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: OBST 430 Credits: 6 Desciption: Common problems in ambulatory care and surgical gynaecology. Clinical experience in the delivery of antenatal care including high-risk conditions, as well as intrapartum and post-partum care.
Name: OBST 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Neuroendocrine regulation of reproduction, regulation of the ovarian and testicular function.
Name: OBST 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: Functional development of the placenta and major organ systems in the fetal and newborn period in man and animals.
Name: OBST 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: OBST 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures and seminars on cellular processes in hormone secretion, steroid biosynthesis, steroid transport and metabolism, mechanism of hormone action, prostaglandins in reproduction.
Name: OBST 505 Credits: 6 Desciption: Laboratory course on: cell and organ cultures, radioimmunoassay of steroid and protein hormones and prostaglandins, in vitro fertilization, neuroendocrine techniques, techniques to study fetuses, techniques for metabolic studies in newborn animals.
Name: OBST 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: OBST 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: Indicators of maternal/newborn well-being across population subgroups, changing trends in obstetrical intervention, perinatal morbidity, and the analysis of perinatal data.
Name: OBST 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: OBST 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to knowledge fundamental to the discipline and practice of nursing. Students who take NURS300 may not also earn credit for NURS302.
Name: NURS 310 Credits: 2 Desciption: Basic principles of pharmacology and the basic structure and function of each body system will be explored to demonstrate how drug interactions occur within systems.
Name: NURS 321 Credits: 2 Desciption: Skills and competencies for clinical practice using a variety of modalities and learning activities.
Name: NURS 322 Credits: 1 Desciption: Clinical practice through a variety of modalities and learning activities in the laboratory environment.
Name: NURS 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental theories, concepts, evidence, and competencies pertaining to nursing practice with adults/older adults and their families.
Name: NURS 333 Credits: 6 Desciption: Analysis and application of theories, concepts, evidence and competencies guiding professional nursing practice with childbearing individuals and families during the transition to parenthood in a variety of practice settings and contexts.
Name: NURS 334 Credits: 6 Desciption: Analysis and application of theories concepts, evidence and competencies guiding professional nursing practice with infants, children, youth, and their families through childhood and adolescence in a variety of practice setting and contexts.
Name: NURS 335 Credits: 6 Desciption: Analysis and application of theories, concepts, evidence and competencies guiding professional nursing practice with mental illness and their families in a variety of practice settings and contexts.
Name: NURS 336 Credits: 6 Desciption: Analysis and application of theories and strategies for working in partnership with populations, health professionals, and community services providers. Students use primary health care principles and population health promotion approaches during community nursing practice.
Name: NURS 337 Credits: 12 Desciption: Analysis and application of theories, concepts, evidence, and competencies guiding professional nursing practice with older adults and their families in a variety of practice settings and contexts.
Name: NURS 341 Credits: 2 Desciption: Critical analysis of the enactment of relational practice toward promotion of health and wellbeing at multiple levels.
Name: NURS 343 Credits: 2 Desciption: Critical analysis of the enactment of nursing leadership, ethics, and policy in practice.
Name: NURS 344 Credits: 2 Desciption: Evidence is examined and synthesized to understand and identify theoretical insights to address a leadership challenge in professional practice.
Name: NURS 345 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and application of theories, concepts, evidence and competencies guiding professional nursing practice with childbearing individuals and families during the transition to parenthood in a variety of practice settings and contexts. Students who take NURS 345 cannot earn credit for NURS 333 or NURS 422.
Name: NURS 346 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and application of theories, concepts, evidence and competencies guiding professional nursing practice with infants, children, youth and their families in a variety of practice settings and contexts. Students who take NURS 346 cannot earn credit for NURS 334 or NURS 423
Name: NURS 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: The significance of critical inquiry and research in nursing and health care, and the fundamental concepts and processes pertaining to scientific inquiry, evidence-based practice, and research utilization in nursing. Students who take NURS 350 cannot earn credit for NURS 305, NURS 339 or NURS 342.
Name: NURS 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: Relational theoretical underpinnings of nursing practice and healthcare ethics are critically examined. Students who take NURS 352 cannot earn credit for NURS 304, NURS 338 or NURS 341.
Name: NURS 360 Credits: 4 Desciption: Clinical practice to integrate and consolidate professional nursing knowledge, skills and competencies in the care of adults/older adults with stable or expected health care challenges and their families. Students who take NURS 360 cannot earn credit for NURS 303, NURS 337 or NURS 420
Name: NURS 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: Clinical practice to integrate and consolidate professional nursing knowledge, skills and competencies in the care of childbearing individuals, infants, and their families. Students who take NURS 365 cannot earn credit for NURS 333 or NURS 422.
Name: NURS 366 Credits: 3 Desciption: Clinical practice to integrate and consolidate professional nursing knowledge, skills and competencies in the care of infants, children, youth and their families. Students who take NURS 366 cannot earn credit for NURS 334 or NURS 423.
Name: NURS 420 Credits: 6 Desciption: Credit is given for one of NURS 420, 422, 423, 424, or 425.
Name: NURS 422 Credits: 6 Desciption: Credit is given for one of NURS 420, 422, 423, 424, or 425.
Name: NURS 423 Credits: 6 Desciption: Credit is given for one of NURS 420, 422, 423, 424, or 425.
Name: NURS 424 Credits: 6 Desciption: Credit is given for one of NURS 420, 422, 423, 424, or 425.
Name: NURS 425 Credits: 6 Desciption: Credit is given for one of NURS 420, 422, 423, 424, or 425.
Name: NURS 427 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 509 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 510 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of organizational behaviour, management methods and administrative processes in health care.
Name: NURS 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of advanced practice nursing models, their development and implementation with a changing health care system.
Name: NURS 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories of learning and their implications for the design of clinical learning experiences.
Name: NURS 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of the theory and practice of clinical nursing education.
Name: NURS 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: Trends and social and institutional policies and practices that influence the health and illness profiles of particular population groups; trends in the social organization of service delivery for their impact on health.
Name: NURS 548 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 549 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 552 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 554 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 570 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 571 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 572 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 576 Credits: 3 Desciption: Characteristics of social and built environments for their impact on the health of populations.
Name: NURS 578 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 580 Credits: 3 Desciption: Students not enrolled in the doctoral program require permission of instructor.
Name: NURS 581 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 585S Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 586I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 586M Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 590A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 590S Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 591 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 595 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 596 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 599 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 601 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 690C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: NURS 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: NRSC 500 Credits: 6 Desciption: Comprehensive multidisciplinary course with lectures, seminars, and laboratory demonstrations encompassing molecular, cellular, systemic, and behavioural approaches to the study of nervous systems. Emphasis is on the physiology, pharmacology, and biochemistry of excitable cells and their synaptic interactions. Permission of Neuroscience Chair is required. Normally to be taken in conjunction with NRSC 501.
Name: NRSC 501 Credits: 6 Desciption: Continuation of NRSC 500 with emphasis on the integrative functions of the brain, behaviour, and selected neural disorders. Permission of Neuroscience Chair is required. Normally to be taken in conjunction with NRSC 500.
Name: NRSC 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: NRSC 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: NEST 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of the past two centuries of archaeological investigations of the civilizations of the ancient Near East and Egypt.
Name: NEST 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: A history from 3100-333 BC with emphasis on Mesopotamia.
Name: NEST 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: History and culture of Ancient Egyptian civilization from political, intellectual, social and environmental perspectives
Name: NEST 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: The material remains of the ancient Egyptians from monumental tombs and temples to the artifacts of daily life; the development of Egyptian civilization from the rise of the first rulers to its incorporation into the Roman Empire.
Name: NEST 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the religious beliefs, cults, and religious institutions in Pharaonic Egypt.
Name: NEST 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: Language of Ancient Egypt and the main literary texts composed during the Middle Kingdom.
Name: NAME 501 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pressure hull design; finite element analysis applications; classification rules; ice and ice loads; dynamic loads including slamming, risk and reliability.
Name: NAME 502 Credits: 4 Desciption: Advanced ship resistance; boundary layers; propeller design; numerical methods in hydrodynamics; advanced marine vehicles; ocean waves; cavitation; ship vibration. Includes a laboratory component involving a wave/towing tank and computational fluid dynamics project.
Name: NAME 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: Build strategy; shipyard layout and equipment; manufacturing techniques; outfitting and painting techniques; material properties; corrosion; welding; fatigue; composite materials.
Name: NAME 524 Credits: 3 Desciption: Terminology; planning; scheduling; budgeting and cost accounting; risk management; quality control; shipbuilding applications.
Name: NAME 566 Credits: 3 Desciption: Equations of motion; ocean wave spectrums, response amplitude operators; seakeeping; maneuvering; stability; dynamic positioning.
Name: NAME 578 Credits: 3 Desciption: Marine propulsion systems; ship engines; shafting; ship vibrations; on-board systems (piping, HVAC, electrical); advanced propulsion systems.
Name: NAME 591 Credits: 2 Desciption: A capstone design project designed to give students experience in the preliminary design of a special purpose ship. Students work individually and in teams, using advanced design software and databases, to design a vessel according to specified criteria.
Name: NAME 592 Credits: 2 Desciption: Twelve weeks full-time with a sponsoring company or agency. Focus on either Design or Production.
Name: MUSC 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental materials and processes of music - rhythmic, melodic, textural and harmonic - and how they create small-scale structures in a variety of styles. Compositional and analytical applications.
Name: MUSC 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Harmonic and linear functions of diatonic chords; common progressions and sequences; introduction to tonal hierarchy and prolongation; simple modulation. Compositional and analytical exercises.
Name: MUSC 103 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts of rhythm, pitch, timbre, and texture. Notation and aural recognition of rhythmic and pitch patterns. Basic principles of melody and form. This course is not applicable to the B.Mus.
Name: MUSC 104 Credits: 3 Desciption: Triads, key and elementary harmony in Western music. Elements of musical form. Aural training and exercises in composition, modeled on historical styles. Not for credit in the B.Mus.
Name: MUSC 105 Credits: 1 Desciption: Sight singing; melodic and harmonic dictation; rhythm production; error detection; tuning; perception of harmony, form, and tonality; improvisation in set idioms. Restricted to B.Mus. students.
Name: MUSC 106 Credits: 1 Desciption: Continuation of MUSC 105. Restricted to B.Mus. students.
Name: MUSC 107C Credits: 6 Desciption: An introduction to musical composition.
Name: MUSC 112 Credits: 2 Desciption: Group instruction in music performance. Restricted to B.Mus. students.
Name: MUSC 119 Credits: 3 Desciption: Practical and theoretical training in technologies that support current artistic and academic practice, such as MIDI, podcasts/videocasts, websites, social media, and software for score notation, music education, and basic audio/video editing.
Name: MUSC 120 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of Western music from antiquity through the Middle Ages and Renaissance, providing a framework for understanding musical styles and practices, and examining selected compositions in greater analytical and historical depth.
Name: MUSC 121 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of Western music from circa 1600 to circa 1800.
Name: MUSC 122 Credits: 2 Desciption: Group instruction in music performance. Restricted to B.Mus. students.
Name: MUSC 131 Credits: 2 Desciption: Group instruction in music performance. Required of all first-time secondary voice students. Restricted to B.Mus. students.
Name: MUSC 135 Credits: 2 Desciption: A musico-dramatic study and analysis of representative works in the international operatic theatre from 1600 to the present, through musical, literary and graphic sources. Each sequential year of study, the student is expected to show increased facility in musical and dramatic analysis as well as a greater understanding of the works under examination. Open to students outside the B.Mus. program by permission of the instructor.
Name: MUSC 136C Credits: 4 Desciption: Performance and discussion of the repertoire for string-keyboard instruments essential to the performer and teacher. Special attention to matters of structure, style, and performance practices. Required of piano performance majors and open to piano concentrators, space permitting. First term prerequisite to second term.
Name: MUSC 141 Credits: 2 Desciption: Required of all first-time secondary piano students.
Name: MUSC 149 Credits: 2 Desciption: Skills and performance practice with primary emphasis on voice/piano partnership principles and repertoire. Strong sight-reading skills essential. For Piano majors; open to others by audition.
Name: MUSC 150A Credits: 4 Desciption: Symphony Orchestra, Symphonic Wind Ensemble, or Concert Winds. May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 150C Credits: 4 Desciption: Symphony Orchestra, Symphonic Wind Ensemble, or Concert Winds. May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 153A Credits: 4 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 154A Credits: 3 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 156A Credits: 3 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 156B Credits: 3 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 156C Credits: 3 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 156E Credits: 3 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 157A Credits: 2 Desciption: Performance of early Western instrumental and vocal ensemble music. May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 159A Credits: 2 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 160A Credits: 2 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 160E Credits: 2 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 161A Credits: 2 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus.
Name: MUSC 162A Credits: 2 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 162B Credits: 2 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 162C Credits: 2.0 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 162E Credits: 2.0 Desciption: May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music. Open to other students by audition, with credit, as stipulated by their faculties.
Name: MUSC 163 Credits: 2 Desciption: Performance of contemporary music. An ensemble of variable size, including both instrumentalists and singers, will be formed to present several concerts of 20th-century music during the academic year.  May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music.
Name: MUSC 164 Credits: 2 Desciption: Performance techniques and repertoire. May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music.
Name: MUSC 165B Credits: 2 Desciption: Training on traditional instruments and their techniques, with emphasis on ensemble performance. Different sections focus on the music of different cultures, e.g., Bali, China, Ghana, Korea. May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music, or when permitted in other programs.
Name: MUSC 165C Credits: 2 Desciption: Training on traditional instruments and their techniques, with emphasis on ensemble performance. Different sections focus on the music of different cultures, e.g., Bali, China, Ghana, Korea. May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music, or when permitted in other programs.
Name: MUSC 165D Credits: 2 Desciption: Training on traditional instruments and their techniques, with emphasis on ensemble performance. Different sections focus on the music of different cultures, e.g., Bali, China, Ghana, Korea. May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music, or when permitted in other programs.
Name: MUSC 165E Credits: 3 Desciption: Training on traditional instruments and their techniques, with emphasis on ensemble performance. Different sections focus on the music of different cultures, e.g., Bali, China, Ghana, Korea. May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music, or when permitted in other programs.
Name: MUSC 165F Credits: 3 Desciption: Training on traditional instruments and their techniques, with emphasis on ensemble performance. Different sections focus on the music of different cultures, e.g., Bali, China, Ghana, Korea. May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music, or when permitted in other programs.
Name: MUSC 165G Credits: 3 Desciption: Training on traditional instruments and their techniques, with emphasis on ensemble performance. Different sections focus on the music of different cultures, e.g., Bali, China, Ghana, Korea. May be repeated for credit in accordance with program requirements for B.Mus. or B.A. in Music, or when permitted in other programs.
Name: MUSC 167 Credits: 2 Desciption: A survey of repertoire and performance issues.
Name: MUSC 169A Credits: 1 Desciption: Intensive coaching in chamber ensemble for advanced players. Performance of works prepared is expected.
Name: MUSC 169B Credits: 1 Desciption: Intensive coaching in chamber ensemble for advanced players. Performance of works prepared is expected.
Name: MUSC 169C Credits: 1 Desciption: Intensive coaching in chamber ensemble for advanced players. Performance of works prepared is expected.
Name: MUSC 170 Credits: 2 Desciption: A study of the basic phonetics and accepted principles of lyric diction of the four languages most commonly used in concert and operatic repertoire: French, German, Italian, and English.
Name: MUSC 171A Credits: 2 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Harmonic and linear functions of common chromatic chords; mixture; chords and progressions of linear origin; tonal plans. Compositional and analytical exercises.
Name: MUSC 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of various forms in tonal music and the rhythmic, melodic, textural, and harmonic processes that create them on small and large scales. Compositional and analytical exercises.
Name: MUSC 205 Credits: 1 Desciption: Continuation of MUSC 106. Restricted to B.Mus. students.
Name: MUSC 206 Credits: 1 Desciption: Continuation of MUSC 205. Restricted to B.Mus. students.
Name: MUSC 207C Credits: 6 Desciption: Continuation of MUSC 107.
Name: MUSC 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of Western music from circa 1800 to circa 1900.
Name: MUSC 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of Western music from circa 1900; an introduction to jazz and popular music and to music of selected non-Western societies.
Name: MUSC 235 Credits: 2 Desciption: See MUSC 135.
Name: MUSC 241 Credits: 2 Desciption: Continuation of MUSC 141.
Name: MUSC 249 Credits: 2 Desciption: Further development of skills and performance practice with primary emphasis on voice/piano partnership principles and repertoire. Strong sight-reading skills essential. For Piano majors; open to others by audition.
Name: MUSC 271B Credits: 2 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts essential to understanding and performing art music, since 1900, in which functional triadic harmony is absent or subsidiary to other musical processes. Detailed consideration of works of major composers up to the present, through analysis, composition, and musicianship exercises.
Name: MUSC 305 Credits: 2 Desciption: A laboratory course for orchestral performance majors. Emphasis on reading a large cross-section of standard orchestral repertoire with further emphasis given to music currently being programmed by local professional orchestras. The course is restricted to Orchestral Instruments majors, except by permission of the instructor.
Name: MUSC 307C Credits: 6 Desciption: Continuation of MUSC 207.
Name: MUSC 309 Credits: 2 Desciption: The study of string, woodwind, brass and percussion instruments; orchestral sections and scoring for various small ensembles. Activities include demonstrations of instruments, scoring projects, analysis and listening. For credit towards the B.Mus. and the B.A. in Music; not open to other students.
Name: MUSC 310 Credits: 2 Desciption: The study of orchestration through the analysis of orchestral works, listening and scoring projects. Activities also include choral arranging and scoring for stage band and wind ensemble.
Name: MUSC 311 Credits: 2 Desciption: Basic conducting techniques: patterns, cueing, dynamic shading, and physical presentation.
Name: MUSC 312 Credits: 2 Desciption: The relation of conducting gestures to instrumental sound; development of practical skills in directing ensembles and reading scores, considering instruments' special characteristics.
Name: MUSC 313 Credits: 2 Desciption: The relation of conducting gestures to choral sound; development of practical skills in directing ensembles and reading scores; attendant issues of vocal technique and pedagogy.
Name: MUSC 319A Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of acoustics, audio technology, and electroacoustic composition. Composition of original works using facilities of the UBC Electroacoustic Music Studio.
Name: MUSC 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: The study of computer applications to music, focusing on digital synthesis techniques and languages, methods of algorithmic composition, and the design of music editors.
Name: MUSC 323 Credits: 3 Desciption: Genres of popular music from 1950 to the present and their changing aesthetic, social, cultural, and historical dimensions. Prior experience with music notation and terminology is not required. This course is not acceptable for credit toward the B.Mus., or toward the B.A. major, honours, or minor in Music.
Name: MUSC 326A Credits: 3 Desciption: An introductory course for which previous musical background is helpful, but not required. Contents include a discussion of musical concepts, evolution of forms, style, and media and detailed study of selected works from the concert repertoire. Popular forms of music (jazz, folk, rock, etc) not included. Not for credit towards the B.Mus. or B.A. in Music.
Name: MUSC 328C Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the principles of ethnomusicology and an examination of at least two contrasting musical traditions. May be repeated once for credit if different traditions are covered.
Name: MUSC 333 Credits: 2 Desciption: Basic techniques and styles of continuo playing. Open to keyboard players with no previous harpsichord experience.
Name: MUSC 336 Credits: 4 Desciption: Performance techniques associated with the musical theatre of various historical periods. Basic dance. Most operatic excerpts will be in English.
Name: MUSC 339C Credits: 6 Desciption: Participation in performances by the School. Open also to students outside Music without credit, after audition.
Name: MUSC 349 Credits: 2 Desciption: Designed for the keyboard performance major and keyboard concentrator in General Studies.
Name: MUSC 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sacred and secular music, vocal and instrumental.
Name: MUSC 356 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 371S Credits: 2 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 402A Credits: 3 Desciption: For fourth-year students who receive permission of the Director of the School of Music to do advanced studies in their major field.
Name: MUSC 402B Credits: 3 Desciption: For fourth-year students who receive permission of the Director of the School of Music to do advanced studies in their major field.
Name: MUSC 402C Credits: 6 Desciption: For fourth-year students who receive permission of the Director of the School of Music to do advanced studies in their major field.
Name: MUSC 403A Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 403B Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 403F Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 403G Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 403I Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 403J Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 403K Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 403L Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 403M Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 403P Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 403X Credits: 3 Desciption: See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 407C Credits: 6 Desciption: Continuation of MUSC 307.
Name: MUSC 409D Credits: 3 Desciption: Jazz scales, chord relationships, substitutions, orchestration, listening, and score analysis. Restricted to B.Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
Name: MUSC 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: The key concepts of Schenker's theory of tonality. Applications to the analysis of short pieces in various tonal styles, emphasizing clear and correct graphing. Issues of interpretive scope.
Name: MUSC 413 Credits: 3 Desciption: A technical approach to the diverse concert-music repertoire since 1950, including orchestral, chamber, solo, and electro-acoustic genres. Applicable theories of pitch and rhythm, with reference to composers' own writings.
Name: MUSC 417A Credits: 3 Desciption: Addresses the practical aspects of composing music for film through assignments of written scores.
Name: MUSC 419 Credits: 3 Desciption: Collaborative projects developing new connections between sound and gestures in live concert performance or responsive environments using multiple digital technologies. May be repeated once for credit.
Name: MUSC 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised individual music technology project on an approved topic. Restricted to students in the Minor in Applied Music Technology
Name: MUSC 436 Credits: 4 Desciption: Advanced studies in acting, movement, gesture, dance and stage combat. Emphasis on communication and the art of singing and acting recitative in foreign languages.
Name: MUSC 439C Credits: 6 Desciption: A continuation of MUSC 339.
Name: MUSC 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Teaching musical concepts and keyboard skills; observation of group and private lessons; supervised practicum.
Name: MUSC 441 Credits: 2 Desciption: A study of the scientific principles related to vocal performance: acoustical, physiological and psychological. Restricted to B.Mus. students.
Name: MUSC 442C Credits: 4 Desciption: Survey of the literature for voice with keyboard accompaniment, with emphasis on performance problems. Open to piano and voice majors, and to others by permission of instructor. May be repeated once for credit.
Name: MUSC 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 454 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of opera between 1600 and 1800.
Name: MUSC 465 Credits: 2 Desciption: A sequel to MUSC 365, exploring the solo art song repertoire from the Romantic era to the present.
Name: MUSC 500C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 500D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 506 Credits: 2 Desciption: Standard repertoire for orchestral instrumentalists.
Name: MUSC 507C Credits: 6 Desciption: The composition of original music for conventional instruments and/or electronic media.
Name: MUSC 508C Credits: 6 Desciption: A continuation of MUSC 507.
Name: MUSC 512A Credits: 3 Desciption: Approval by the Director, School of Music, is required.
Name: MUSC 512B Credits: 3 Desciption: Approval by the Director, School of Music, is required.
Name: MUSC 512C Credits: 6 Desciption: Approval by the Director, School of Music, is required.
Name: MUSC 512D Credits: 3 Desciption: Approval by the Director, School of Music, is required.
Name: MUSC 512E Credits: 3 Desciption: Approval by the Director, School of Music, is required.
Name: MUSC 512F Credits: 3 Desciption: Approval by the Director, School of Music, is required.
Name: MUSC 512G Credits: 3 Desciption: Approval by the Director, School of Music, is required.
Name: MUSC 520A Credits: 3 Desciption: Principal resources of the research library.
Name: MUSC 521D Credits: 3 Desciption: Studies in the theoretical and practical problems of musical interpretation.
Name: MUSC 525A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 529 Credits: 3 Desciption: Preliminary studies in the discipline of ethnomusicology, with an emphasis on history and orientations.
Name: MUSC 530C Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics involving methodology and fieldwork in non-Western traditions. Topics will vary and students should consult the School as to areas of focus in any given term.
Name: MUSC 532A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 532C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 532G Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 532K Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 532L Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 532M Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 532X Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 533B Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced seminar in music theory.  May be repeated for credit if different topics are covered.
Name: MUSC 533F Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced seminar in music theory.  May be repeated for credit if different topics are covered.
Name: MUSC 535 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 538C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 539C Credits: 6 Desciption: Stylistic and technical studies and participation in the production of opera performances. May be repeated for credit, in accordance with program requirements.
Name: MUSC 544B Credits: 4 Desciption: Advanced study of conducting techniques and of representative major compositions and literature (earlier historical periods). Emphasis on knowledge and conducting skills that can communicate a thorough understanding of genre, idiom, form, texture, and style, in rehearsal and performance.
Name: MUSC 544C Credits: 4 Desciption: Advanced study of conducting techniques and of representative major compositions and literature (earlier historical periods). Emphasis on knowledge and conducting skills that can communicate a thorough understanding of genre, idiom, form, texture, and style, in rehearsal and performance.
Name: MUSC 545A Credits: 4 Desciption: Advanced study of conducting techniques and of representative major compositions and literature (later historical periods). Emphasis on knowledge and conducting skills that can communicate a thorough understanding of genre, idiom, form, texture, and style, in rehearsal and performance.
Name: MUSC 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 550A Credits: 4 Desciption: Symphony Orchestra or Wind Ensemble. Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 550C Credits: 4 Desciption: Symphony Orchestra or Wind Ensemble. Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 553 Credits: 4 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 554 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 556 Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 557 Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 559 Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 560A Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 560E Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 561A Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 562A Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 562B Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 562C Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 562E Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 563 Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 564 Credits: 2 Desciption: Open only to graduate students.
Name: MUSC 565B Credits: 2 Desciption: Training on traditional instruments and their techniques, with emphasis on ensemble performance. Different sections focus on the music of different cultures, e.g., Bali, China, Ghana, Korea.
Name: MUSC 565C Credits: 2 Desciption: Training on traditional instruments and their techniques, with emphasis on ensemble performance. Different sections focus on the music of different cultures, e.g., Bali, China, Ghana, Korea.
Name: MUSC 565D Credits: 2 Desciption: Training on traditional instruments and their techniques, with emphasis on ensemble performance. Different sections focus on the music of different cultures, e.g., Bali, China, Ghana, Korea.
Name: MUSC 569A Credits: 1 Desciption: Intensive coaching.
Name: MUSC 569B Credits: 1 Desciption: Intensive coaching.
Name: MUSC 569C Credits: 1 Desciption: Intensive coaching.
Name: MUSC 571A Credits: 2 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 572B Credits: 4 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 591B Credits: 2 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 593A Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental. May be repeated for credit, in accordance with program requirements.
Name: MUSC 593B Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental. May be repeated for credit, in accordance with program requirements.
Name: MUSC 593C Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental. May be repeated for credit, in accordance with program requirements.
Name: MUSC 593D Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental. May be repeated for credit, in accordance with program requirements.
Name: MUSC 593E Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental. May be repeated for credit, in accordance with program requirements.
Name: MUSC 593F Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental. May be repeated for credit, in accordance with program requirements.
Name: MUSC 593G Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental. May be repeated for credit, in accordance with program requirements.
Name: MUSC 593H Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental. May be repeated for credit, in accordance with program requirements.
Name: MUSC 606 Credits: 2 Desciption: Continuation of MUSC 506.
Name: MUSC 607C Credits: 6 Desciption: Further study for doctoral candidates in Composition.
Name: MUSC 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: MUSC 692A Credits: 4 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 693B Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 693C Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 693D Credits: 6 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 694A Credits: 8 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 694B Credits: 8 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 694C Credits: 8 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 694D Credits: 8 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 695A Credits: 10 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 695B Credits: 10 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 695C Credits: 10 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MUSC 695D Credits: 10 Desciption: Private instruction, vocal or instrumental.
Name: MTRL 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Written and oral communication in business correspondence, engineering design methods, report preparation, and oral presentations of technical material. Restricted to students in second year of the Materials Engineering Program.
Name: MTRL 250 Credits: 4 Desciption: Basic heat and mass balances applied to materials engineering; thermodynamic principles applied to materials processing: heat of reaction, free energy, activity, phase equilibrium.
Name: MTRL 252 Credits: 4 Desciption: High temperature equilibria: reactions involving gases, Ellingham diagrams, phase diagrams; thermodynamics of combustion systems relevant to materials engineering; advanced heat and mass balances applied to materials engineering.
Name: MTRL 263 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fluid statics; fluid mechanics; laminar and turbulent flow; equations of continuity and motion; boundary layers; flow in conduits and packed and fluidized beds; flow measurements.
Name: MTRL 264 Credits: 3 Desciption: Conduction, forced and natural convection, and radiation.  Heat transfer with fluid flow, applications of heat exchange, and solidification of castings.
Name: MTRL 280 Credits: 3 Desciption: The process of materials selection for different design criteria; the importance of shape and processing variables; the use of computer software in the selection process.
Name: MTRL 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Manufacturing processes from a materials perspective; metal casting, heat treating processes, forming processes, machining, and joining. Role of manufacturing in microstructure and material properties development and on component performance.
Name: MTRL 350 Credits: 4 Desciption: Low temperature equilibria: solution thermochemistry, electrochemistry, chemical potential and free energy diagrams applied to materials processing and thermodynamic modelling.
Name: MTRL 358 Credits: 3 Desciption: Aqueous extraction of metals from ores and concentrates.
Name: MTRL 359 Credits: 1 Desciption: Laboratory exercises on aqueous extraction of metals from ores and concentrates.
Name: MTRL 361 Credits: 4 Desciption: Mathematical and physical modelling of processes employed in the production of materials. The application of models to analyse, design and improve materials production.
Name: MTRL 363 Credits: 3 Desciption: Diffusion and mass transfer with chemical reaction; gas-liquid, gas-solid and liquid-liquid systems; analysis of mass transfer processes in metallurgical operations; mixing in continuous and batch processes.
Name: MTRL 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: Polycrystalline and single crystal deformation; dislocation theory; strengthening mechanisms; fracture mechanics; fatigue; high temperature deformation mechanisms.
Name: MTRL 378 Credits: 3 Desciption: Solidification and solid state transformations; nucleation and growth processes; segregation and structure in castings; phase changes in steel; transformation diagrams; diffusion equations.
Name: MTRL 381 Credits: 1 Desciption: Structure and properties of ferrous and non-ferrous metals; heat treatment; hardenability; metallography; age hardening.
Name: MTRL 382 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fundamentals of engineering ceramics focusing on raw materials, forming, sintering and properties, characterization, and design with ceramics.
Name: MTRL 392 Credits: 2 Desciption: Written and oral technical communication. Report preparation and oral presentation of technical information.
Name: MTRL 394 Credits: 4 Desciption: The structure and properties of polymeric materials, reinforced polymers and polymer matrix composites with emphasis on their engineering properties and applications.
Name: MTRL 398 Credits: 1 Desciption: Written communication in engineering. Reporting of technical material.
Name: MTRL 442 Credits: 3 Desciption: Strategies for ceramic and metallic coatings by melting-solidification, from the vapour state and from solution, and methods of surface modification.
Name: MTRL 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic principles and techniques of microstructural analysis with particular reference to engineered materials including x-ray, SEM microprobe TEM and high energy electron analysis.
Name: MTRL 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: Time value of money, cash flows, capital and operating cost estimation, financial decision making and relevant case studies.
Name: MTRL 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental aspects of environmental degradation of metals (corrosion), ceramics, adn polymers, with an empasis on aqueous environments.
Name: MTRL 458 Credits: 3 Desciption: Leaching, purification, precipitation, regeneration; thermodynamics and kinetics of separation steps; electrochemical applications.
Name: MTRL 460 Credits: 3 Desciption: Measurement systems for materials processing and evaluation, methods of data collection and analysis in materials engineering, materials processing monitoring and control, design of experiments for materials processing and optimization.
Name: MTRL 466 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design projects to illustrate the full spectrum of design encountered in Metals and Materials Engineering including the design of components, structures and processes used to manufacture materials.
Name: MTRL 467 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design projects to illustrate the full spectrum of design encountered in Metals and Materials Engineering including the design of components, structures and processes used to manufacture materials.
Name: MTRL 471 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to nanomaterials in the form of fibres and composites, including processing, structure, characterization methods, properties, and modeling. Credit will only be given for one of MTRL 471 or MTRL 571.
Name: MTRL 472 Credits: 3 Desciption: Case studies addressing temperature modelling in welding and joining, material selection for welds and joints, calculation of properties for welds and joints, mechanical analysis of joints, and design of welding and joining procedures.
Name: MTRL 475 Credits: 3 Desciption: Follows the production of metallurgical products, focusing on process design models used to describe solidification, recrystallization, and precipitation.
Name: MTRL 478 Credits: 3 Desciption: Semiconductor materials, MOSFET structure, operation and applications in digital circuits, fabrication techniques, basic mask and fabrication flow design and semiconductor fabrication process theories at an entry level.
Name: MTRL 485 Credits: 3 Desciption: Failure by excess deformation, fracture, fatigue, and environmental effects. Failure theories and case studies of engineering failures.
Name: MTRL 486 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of test methods; inspection techniques and equipment; quantitative flaw evaluation; reliability analysis.
Name: MTRL 489 Credits: 1 Desciption: Training and practice in public speaking and presentation of technical papers.
Name: MTRL 494 Credits: 3 Desciption: Understanding the properties and the mechanical behaviour of composite materials with emphasis on analysis, design, and manufacturing. Credit will only be given for one of MTRL 494, 594.
Name: MTRL 495 Credits: 3 Desciption: Engineered materials in medical applications with an emphasis on material properties, functionality, design, and material response in the biological environment.
Name: MTRL 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mathematical modeling of manufacturing processes; Computer Aided Engineering tools; application examples will be drawn from a range of manufacturing operations.
Name: MTRL 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: The full spectrum of design encountered including the design of components, structures and processes used to manufacture materials.
Name: MTRL 557 Credits: 3 Desciption: The theory of solvent extraction and ion exchange, membrane separations, chemical precipitation, electrochemical separations and other techniques for aqueous metal processing, applications from the metal processing literature.
Name: MTRL 559 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced thermochemical modeling of hydrometallurgical unit operations to include extraction, separation, and recovery of base metals.  Application to flow-sheet analysis.
Name: MTRL 564 Credits: 3 Desciption: Batch leaching kinetics, leaching mechanisms; statistical methods for design of multiparticle continuous leaching reactors; coupled heat and mass balances, mixing phenomena, redox and precipitation reactions, complex mineralogical feeds; heap and dump leaching.
Name: MTRL 571 Credits: 3 Desciption: Processing and properties of nanomaterials in the context of fibrous and composite materials. Credit will only be given for one of MTRL 471, 571.
Name: MTRL 578 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical mechanisms of microstructure evolution; structure, energy and mobilities of grain boundaries, grain boundary segregation, precipitation, recovery, recrystallization, grain growth; microstructure engineering of steels.
Name: MTRL 579 Credits: 3 Desciption: Practical aspects, physical models, and simulations of Si-based nanofabrication processes such as oxidation, diffusion, ion implantation, chemical vapor deposition, etching, stress techniques. Semiconductor device physic basics will also be discussed.
Name: MTRL 585 Credits: 3 Desciption: The equations and concepts of linear elastic fracture mechanics. Fracture toughness testing, statistical theories of fracture and proof testing, stress corrosion cracking and static fatigue. Acoustic emission and other nondestructive testing methods. Case studies of large scale fractures of pressure vessels and structures.
Name: MTRL 592B Credits: 3 Desciption: May be arranged on approval of the department head.
Name: MTRL 592E Credits: 3 Desciption: May be arranged on approval of the department head.
Name: MTRL 593B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MTRL 594 Credits: 3 Desciption: Processing and properties of advanced polymer based composite materials with emphasis on analysis, design, and manufacturing. Credit will only be given for one of MTRL 494, 594.
Name: MTRL 595 Credits: 3 Desciption: Formation and structure-function relations of biological materials, the interaction of tissue-synthetic biomaterials, advanced biomaterials design, biomimetic processing, and current progress in drug delivery systems and biomedical devices.
Name: MTRL 596 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: MTRL 597 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: MTRL 598 Credits: 0 Desciption: Presentation and discussion of current topics in metals and materials research. A required course for graduate students in metals and materials which carries no academic credit.
Name: MTRL 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: For M.A.Sc. Degree. Research studies in chemical metallurgy, physical metallurgy, or ceramics.
Name: MTRL 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: MRNE 400A Credits: 3 Desciption: A research project approved by the supervisor in the field of interest of the student designed to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre. Note: the supervisor may be teaching at the Marine Centre; or a member of faculty of WCUMSS whether at the Marine Centre as a research investigator or as one of the members of WCUMSS.
Name: MRNE 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of classification, evolution, morphology, biomechanics, physiology and biochemistry will be illustrated in representatives from a variety of animal phyla.
Name: MRNE 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: Morphological, physiological, genetic and reproductive adaptations of seaweeds to their environments.
Name: MRNE 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: Emphasis on interactions among organisms and between organisms and their physiochemical environment, and on biological diversity.
Name: MRNE 480 Credits: 3 Desciption: Instruction in the critical analysis of published research papers and of oral seminars.
Name: MINE 224 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fundamentals of the main techniques used by the industry to characterize raw materials and troubleshoot processing plants.
Name: MINE 291 Credits: 3 Desciption: Leading practices and technologies employed in the design, planning, and operation of mining systems. Life cycle of surface and underground mining systems.
Name: MINE 292 Credits: 3 Desciption: Overview; extracting a mineral or final product from an ore.
Name: MINE 293 Credits: 1 Desciption: Oral presentation of topics by students. Graded on basis of report and presentation.
Name: MINE 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selection, design and development of underground mining methods based upon physical, geological, economical and environmental constraints. Underground materials handling (ore, waste, slurry, water) with equipment selection, production requirements, performance and costs.
Name: MINE 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: The study of the mechanical and structural properties of rock materials at the laboratory and field level. The relevance of such studies to common mining, geological and civil engineering problems. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 303 or MINE 305.
Name: MINE 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and practice of rock fragmentation by drilling and blasting; introduction to explosives and initiation systems; design of surface and underground blasts; machine excavation systems for tunneling and stoping; environmental impacts, safety, and risk assessment.
Name: MINE 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Surface mining methods, production planning and scheduling; slope design and drainage; wall control; materials handling and equipment selection; production control and automation, waste disposal and closure.
Name: MINE 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mineral processing unit operations and sampling, crushing, grinding, screening, classification, gravity separation, magnetic separation, electrostatic separation, concentrate dewatering practices.
Name: MINE 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and technology of flotation and ancillary processes.
Name: MINE 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods for determining the behaviour of large scale industrial systems and their application to the design and analysis of such systems.
Name: MINE 393 Credits: 1 Desciption: Oral presentation of topics by instructor and guest lecturers.
Name: MINE 396 Credits: 3 Desciption: Discrete and continuous cash flow models, discounted cash flow analysis, effects of depreciation and taxes, economic analysis of projects, sensitivity and risk analysis, financing and cost of capital.
Name: MINE 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design and analysis for ventilation systems for mining. Topics such as ventilation design, ventilation surveys, thermodynamic aspects, psychrometry of air and air conditioning.
Name: MINE 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: The design of rock slopes and underground openings with respect to stress, structure and the rock mass. Stabilization and monitoring of rock movement.
Name: MINE 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Human relations in an organization; types of organizations; personnel evaluations and job rating systems; impact of manpower planning on decision-making; union negotiations; public relations; dealing with the media; corporate responsibilities to society and employees.
Name: MINE 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mineral economics and finance. Analytical tools and techniques used in the valuation of mining companies and the financial analysis and risk assessment methods.
Name: MINE 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: Automatic control theory, PID control, Laplace and z-transforms, loop tuning, frequency response, stability analysis, control strategies in flotation, comminution, dewatering, reagent and bin/sump levels, automated load-haul-dump and drilling equipment, instrumentation and soft sensors.
Name: MINE 434 Credits: 3 Desciption: Process alternatives and mineralogical considerations; physical and chemical recovery technologies; environmental protection; flowsheet studies.
Name: MINE 438 Credits: 3 Desciption: Textural parameters, such as mineral liberation size and mineral associations in connection with the mineral processing techniques for mineral recovery.
Name: MINE 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mine water management covering integrated water resource management, water balances, sources, water use optimization, water quality and treatment and long term stewardship.
Name: MINE 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: Thermal and metallurgical coals: objectives of their cleaning; coal washability and flotability fundamentals; coal preparation unit operations; performance characteristics of coal washing equipment; products dewatering; plant flowsheets.
Name: MINE 465 Credits: 3 Desciption: Knowledge and understanding of equipment used in mining operations, including diesel, electro-mechanical, hydraulic and pneumatic equipment as well as conveyors, load-haul-dump trucks and pumps.
Name: MINE 480 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic geotechnical, hydrological, and water management aspects of mine waste management.
Name: MINE 482 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analytical foundation for maintenance of industrial plant equipment and mobile equipment in various production environments; maintenance planning and management, life cycle analysis, reliability theory, total quality maintenance, condition monitoring.
Name: MINE 485 Credits: 3 Desciption: Designs, planning, and leading practices are applied to underground mining systems reliant on induced and controlled rock mass caving.
Name: MINE 486 Credits: 3 Desciption: Environmental topics of importance to engineers practicing within the mining, metallurgical and related industries including technical practices, regulatory and public issues.
Name: MINE 488 Credits: 3 Desciption: Life cycle of the production of Oil Sands resources, including mining, bitumen extraction, and reclamation.
Name: MINE 491 Credits: 4 Desciption: Design of a mining operation or a mineral processing plant as part of a realistic feasibility study project.
Name: MINE 493 Credits: 1 Desciption: Oral presentation of a technical nature. Use of closed circuit television for personal evaluation.
Name: MINE 497B Credits: 3 Desciption: Requires approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 497E Credits: 3 Desciption: Requires approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 497G Credits: 3 Desciption: Requires approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 497P Credits: 3 Desciption: Requires approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 501A Credits: 3 Desciption: Leading practices and technologies employed in the Canadian Mining Industry.  Topics include: mining, mineral processing, mine finance and mining and the environment.
Name: MINE 501B Credits: 1 Desciption: Leading practices and technologies employed in the Canadian Mining Industry.  Topics include: mining, mineral processing, mine finance and mining and the environment.
Name: MINE 504 Credits: 2 Desciption: Theory and practice of drilling and blasting; explosive types and strengths. Blast pattern design for underground and surface operations. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 504 or MINE 565.
Name: MINE 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: Rock mass properties and numerical modelling applied to rock engineering design with particular emphasis on applications in rock slopes and tunneling.
Name: MINE 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: A more advanced study of some aspects of mining methods. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 506 or MINE 550.
Name: MINE 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mass mining (caving) methods, their design and operation, the value proposition and the key value drivers.
Name: MINE 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods and systems for integrated mining and processing, conceptual model development, simulation, economic and technical evaluation. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 508 or MINE 557.
Name: MINE 509 Credits: 2 Desciption: Mine air conditioning, ventilation network analysis, radioactivity in mining, case studies in mine ventilation and control of dust, fumes and diesel exhausts. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 509 or MINE 560.
Name: MINE 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sustainability of mining and the future of the industry. Mineral resources and consumption. Possible future sources such as recycling, municipal or mine waste, or small, low grade, deep, ocean floor ore deposits, and asteroids.
Name: MINE 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Thermal and metallurgical coals. Desulphurization Theory of coal beneficiation. Dense media separation. Coal surface properties and their effect on fine coal processing by flotation and oil agglomeration; coal/water/slurries. Plant performance testing and instrumentation. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 520 or MINE 566.
Name: MINE 522 Credits: 4 Desciption: Particulate systems. Role of particle size and interfacial phenomena in properties of disperse systems. Stability of colloids and suspensions DLVO (Dejaguin-Landau-Vervey-Overbeek). Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 522 or MINE 572.
Name: MINE 522A Credits: 2 Desciption: Particulate systems. Role of particle size and interfacial phenomena in properties of disperse systems. Stability of colloids and suspensions DLVO (Dejaguin-Landau-Vervey-Overbeek). Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 522 or MINE 572.
Name: MINE 522B Credits: 4 Desciption: Particulate systems. Role of particle size and interfacial phenomena in properties of disperse systems. Stability of colloids and suspensions DLVO (Dejaguin-Landau-Vervey-Overbeek). Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 522 or MINE 572.
Name: MINE 524 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advances in science and technology for recovering gold, silver, and platinum group elements. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 524 or MINE 577.
Name: MINE 529 Credits: 3 Desciption: Rheological measurements, flow curve modelling, micro-rheology, control of rheological properties. Application to mineral processing unit operations. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 529 or MINE 579.
Name: MINE 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced topics related to mining environment selected in consultation with the instructor. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 541 or MINE 581.
Name: MINE 547 Credits: 3 Desciption: The use of artificial intelligence to solve complex problems in industry. Topics include knowledge acquisition, knowledge representation, knowledge accumulation, and conflict resolution. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 547 or MINE 578.
Name: MINE 552 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic geostatistical concepts. Applications of geostatistical techniques and stochastic simulation to orebody modelling and grade control.
Name: MINE 553 Credits: 3 Desciption: Use of mathematical programming, network theory, queuing models and simulation to model service and production operations in industry. Use of models in decision-making.
Name: MINE 554 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mine valuation using discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing methods. Sources of mine finance and requirements. Sensitivity and risk assessment. Introduction to metals marketing, hedging and risk management.
Name: MINE 555 Credits: 3 Desciption: Discussion of social, political and technical topics concerning mining-related activities. Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 555 or MINE 583.
Name: MINE 556 Credits: 2 Desciption: Geologic investigations and field and laboratory testing; detailed review of the mechanisms of rock slope instability; the influence of geology, ground water and blasting on rock slope stability; design of stable rock slopes; monitoring of rock slope behaviour; stabilization or rock slope failures.
Name: MINE 559 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of MINE 559 or MINE 585.
Name: MINE 590A Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590B Credits: 1 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590C Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590D Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590E Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590H Credits: 2 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590J Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590L Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590M Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590N Credits: 2 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590P Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590Q Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590R Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590S Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590T Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590V Credits: 6 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 590Z Credits: 3 Desciption: A special advanced course may be arranged upon the approval of the department head.
Name: MINE 592A Credits: 3 Desciption: Mining or mineral processing engineering internship in which concepts, theory and practice of mining and mineral processing engineering are applied by working with industry on appropriate technical projects. Pass/fail.
Name: MINE 592B Credits: 3 Desciption: Mining or mineral processing engineering internship in which concepts, theory and practice of mining and mineral processing engineering are applied by working with industry on appropriate technical projects. Pass/fail.
Name: MINE 592C Credits: 9 Desciption: Mining or mineral processing engineering internship in which concepts, theory and practice of mining and mineral processing engineering are applied by working with industry on appropriate technical projects. Pass/fail.
Name: MINE 597 Credits: 6 Desciption: A project involving laboratory, pilot plant or field work is to be completed in close collaboration with an academic adviser. For M.Eng. students only.
Name: MINE 598 Credits: 2 Desciption: Topics in mining, mineral processing and the environment for M.A.Sc. and M.Eng. students.
Name: MINE 599C Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: MINE 698 Credits: 2 Desciption: Topics in mining and mineral processing for Ph.D. students.
Name: MINE 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: MIDW 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory, knowledge, strategies, and skills of person-centered counselling including family systems, trauma theory, theory, grief counselling, motivational interviewing skills, self-awareness and mindfulness, interprofessional communication, and cultural competency in continuity of care.
Name: MIDW 102 Credits: 4 Desciption: An interdisciplinary study of pregnancy and childbirth drawing on and integrating the disciplines of psychology, sociology, philosophy of science, anthropology, women's studies, and cultural studies.
Name: MIDW 103 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to diagnostics related to cellular and humoral immune responses in pregnant women and newborns, the properties of viruses, epidemiology, the principles of bacterial pathogenesis, and related physiologic responses.
Name: MIDW 104 Credits: 3 Desciption: Breastfeeding physiology, pathophysiology, and strategies for support of the dyad based on best-practice principles.  Discussion of major Canadian and international initiatives for the support and protection of breastfeeding.
Name: MIDW 106 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physiology of conception, pregnancy, lactation, fetal growth, labour, birth, transition to extra-uterine life, postpartum. A series of lectures and lab sessions.
Name: MIDW 107 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of physical assessment, physical and psychological assessment of the mother and neonate. A series of lectures and clinical lab sessions.
Name: MIDW 108 Credits: 7 Desciption: Scope of practice of a midwife, regulatory framework, skills for basic midwifery practice. A series of lectures and clinical lab sessions.
Name: MIDW 115 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research designs used in midwifery research, types of studies reported in the midwifery and health care literature, research methodology and basic principles of epidemiology, biostatistics and social research.
Name: MIDW 125 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of basic concepts in pharmacology, pharmacy, and therapeutics relevant to the practice of midwifery in Canada.
Name: MIDW 205 Credits: 8 Desciption: Care of normal pregnancy, labour, birth, and puerperium with an empahsis on the intrapartum period and assessment and management skills.  Inludes a four-week intensive session in Vancouver, a series of online tutorials, and simulation and skills lab practice.
Name: MIDW 215 Credits: 2 Desciption: Ethics using ethical theory in health care and midwifery.
Name: MIDW 220 Credits: 10 Desciption: Clinical care of women experiencing normal pregnancy, labour, birth, and puerperium.  Clinical education experiences in preventative and therapeutic midwifery care with emphasis on prenatal and postnatal midwifery care.  Clinical practice education opportunities within the province.  Pass/Fail.
Name: MIDW 221 Credits: 1 Desciption: Online situation-based learning tutorials occurring simultaneously with MIDW 220 clinical placement.
Name: MIDW 240 Credits: 9 Desciption: Clinical education experiences with the preventative and therapeutic midwifery care of normal pregnancy, labour, birth, and puerperium with an emphasis on the intrapartum period and assessment and management skills.  A clinical practicum in locations around the provice.  Pass/Fail.
Name: MIDW 305 Credits: 6 Desciption: Theoretical principles of care for pregnancy, birth, and the puerperium with an emphasis on the recognition and management of variations of normal and findings outside of normal.  Consists of a one-week intensive time in Vancouver, during which emergency skills certification is acquired, and weekly web-based tutorials.
Name: MIDW 310 Credits: 5 Desciption: An original piece of scholarship that builds on knowledge and skills acquired from coursework and in consultation with faculty mentors.
Name: MIDW 320 Credits: 10 Desciption: Clinical education experiences with the preventative and therapeutic midwifery care of pregnancy, birth, and the puerperium.  Emphasis on the recognition and management of variations of normal and findings outside normal.  A 12-week practicum in locations around the province.  Pass/Fail.
Name: MIDW 322 Credits: 8 Desciption: Clinical course focusing on consolidation of skills and knowledge of all aspects of midwifery care.
Name: MIDW 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: Professional issues in midwifery including responsibilities and conduct, self-care, peer review, inter-professional relations and communication, legal and business concepts, and continuous quality assurance and improvement in practice.  A series of lectures and workshops delivered in an intensive format over two weeks.
Name: MIDW 350 Credits: 12 Desciption: Opportunities to explore health professions that partner with midwives to care for the childbearing family within the province.  Pass/Fail.
Name: MIDW 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: Social and economic determinants of maternal and fetal health worldwide, innovative public health strategies to reducing maternal and infant mortality and morbidity, and the impact of conflict on the health of mothers and babies.  Ethical considerations related to global clinical placements and medical tourism.  Theoretical course in preparation for global clinical placement.  Pass/Fail.
Name: MIDW 370 Credits: 9 Desciption: Social and economic determinants of maternal and fetal health worldwide, innovative public health strategies to reducing maternal and infant mortality and morbidity, and the impact of conflict on the health of mothers and babies.  Ethical considerations related to global clinical placements and medical tourism.  A global clinical placement.  Pass/Fail.
Name: MIDW 380 Credits: 10 Desciption: Clinical course providing opportunity to study midwifery in contexts beyond those usually offered on the program. Students select context and provide rationale for how the context will enhance their learning.
Name: MIDW 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical principles for midwifery care of pregnancy, labour, birth, newborns, and the puerperium.  Emphasis on assessment and management skills for abnormal situations.  Includes a five-day intensive session in Vancouver, a series of online tutorials, and lab practice.
Name: MIDW 420 Credits: 12 Desciption: Clinical education for midwifery care of pregnancy, birth, and the puerperium with an empahsis on abnormal situations in pregnancy, labour and birth, and in newborns.  Clinical practicum around the province.  Pass/Fail.
Name: MIDW 430 Credits: 5 Desciption: In-depth review of the theoretical principles and evidence basis for comprehensive midwifery care.  Tutorials are carried out in an online live classroom setting.
Name: MIDW 440 Credits: 13 Desciption: Students assume a primary care role in clinical placements in midwifery practices across the provinces.  Demonstration of independent decision making and application of the full range of their academic knowledge to professional practice.  A practicum under the supervision of a registered midwife.  Pass/Fail.
Name: MIDW 499A Credits: 4 Desciption: Unique self-directed elective learning opportunities.
Name: MIDW 499G Credits: 8 Desciption: Unique self-directed elective learning opportunities.
Name: MICB 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Prokaryotic diversity and the impact and applications of bacterial and archaeal metabolic, genetic, and growth processes in environmental contexts.
Name: MICB 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to cellular and humoral immune responses, the properties of viruses and the principles of bacterial pathogenesis. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.)
Name: MICB 203 Credits: 1 Desciption: Procedures and principles associated with isolation, characterization and handling of microorganisms. Intended for students requiring a basic microbiology laboratory course.
Name: MICB 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Dynamics and control of prokaryotic cellular processes in response to the biotic and abiotic environment including metabolic interactions and metabolic cooperation between microorganisms.
Name: MICB 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cells, molecules, and mechanisms of innate and adaptive immunity. Antigen presenting cells and the major histocompatibility complex, T and B lymphocytes and their antigen receptors, T and B cell development, innate and adaptive immune responses against pathogens, diseases associated with aberrant immune responses.
Name: MICB 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to virus structure and replication. Detailed examination of selected viruses including polio, HIV and cancer-causing retroviruses. Development of vaccines and anti-viral drugs, the use of virus vectors to cure genetic diseases.
Name: MICB 308 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mechanisms of bacterial pathogenesis including adherence, invasion, intracellular survival, toxins, host defenses and microbial evasion strategies, antibiotics, and vaccines.  Introduction to experimental approaches used to study bacterial pathogens.
Name: MICB 322 Credits: 3 Desciption: Aseptic handling and characterization of microbes, growth properties, enzyme assays, protein analysis and plasmid isolation. Restricted to students in Microbiology and Immunology specializations.
Name: MICB 323 Credits: 3 Desciption: Genetic manipulations of bacteria, introductory immunological and virological procedures, tissue culture. Restricted to students in Microbiology and Immunology specializations.
Name: MICB 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: Genetic, molecular biological and bioinformatic approaches for the analysis of microbial genomes, gene structure-function and gene expression with emphasis on bacteria.
Name: MICB 353 Credits: 1 Desciption: Procedures and principles associated with isolation, enumeration, characterization and handling of microorganisms. Restricted to students registered in the Food Science program.
Name: MICB 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting, taken during the Winter Session (Term 2) of third year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program of Biotechnology in Microbiology and Immunology.
Name: MICB 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting, taken during Summer Session (Terms 1 and 2) following third year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program of Biotechnology in Microbiology and Immunology.
Name: MICB 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Microbiological analysis of environmental samples using culture-dependent and culture-independent methods.
Name: MICB 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Molecular basis of lymphocyte development, activation and adhesion; immunogenetics and the major histocompatibility complex. Consult the credit exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the calendar.
Name: MICB 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: A lecture/discussion/library research course. Topics such as antibiotic resistance, pathogen genomics; host-pathogen interactions; evolution of pathogens; host responses to infection, invasive mechanisms, resistance mechanisms.
Name: MICB 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Computational methods to analyze genome and protein sequences to derive structural and functional information. Related topics in functional genomics.
Name: MICB 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Presentations, library research, paper reviews, class discussions about current research in virology. Topics such as molecular targets in viral therapy; chronic viral infection; virus-host cell interaction.
Name: MICB 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interactions between viruses and humans; pathogenesis; persistence and viral oncogenesis; virological diagnosis and treatment. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.)
Name: MICB 408 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current and emerging themes in bacterial pathogenesis including cellular microbiology, bacterial cell biology processes and their role in virulence including secretion systems to deliver virulence factors and immune evasion strategies employed by pathogens.  Development of antibiotics and resistance to antibiotics.
Name: MICB 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Presentations, library research, paper reviews and class discussion on selected areas of advanced molecular and cellular immunological research.
Name: MICB 418 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploitation of microbial and animal cells for the industrial production of chemicals ranging from alcohol to therapeutic proteins. Genetic manipulation of cellular characteristics, fermentation methods, patenting and governmental approval processes.
Name: MICB 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research in microbial physiology and molecular genetics.  Guided and independent laboratory projects are developed.
Name: MICB 424 Credits: 3 Desciption: Regulatory and signalling networks in bacterial cells with emphasis on how cellular and environmental cues are detected and integrated during different growth or life history stages of important pathogenic and environmental bacteria.
Name: MICB 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: Intrinsic and extrinsic forces driving prokaryotic genome evolution.  Gene transfer; microbial species concepts; community genome structure, function and dynamics; ecological impacts of microbial genome diversity.  Emphasis on problem solving and experimental design.
Name: MICB 430A Credits: 3 Desciption: Student seminars on selected papers from the microbiological literature. Compulsory for Honours students. Major students may enrol with permission of the department head.
Name: MICB 430B Credits: 3 Desciption: Student seminars on selected papers from the microbiological literature. Compulsory for Honours students. Major students may enrol with permission of the department head.
Name: MICB 447 Credits: 3 Desciption: A laboratory course with a choice of independent, supervised research projects. Students develop protocols to carry out investigation of selected molecular biology problems.
Name: MICB 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: A library (3 credits) or laboratory (3 or 6 credits) project. Requires permission of the Undergraduate Advisor. The results are presented in a written report to be reviewed by oral examination.
Name: MICB 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: A library (3 credits) or laboratory (3 or 6 credits) project. Requires permission of the Undergraduate Advisor. The results are presented in a written report to be reviewed by oral examination.
Name: MICB 448C Credits: 6 Desciption: A library (3 credits) or laboratory (3 or 6 credits) project. Requires permission of the Undergraduate Advisor. The results are presented in a written report to be reviewed by oral examination.
Name: MICB 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: A laboratory investigation in the final year of the Honours program. The results are presented in a written report, to be reviewed by oral examination.
Name: MICB 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting, taken during the Summer Session (Terms 1 and 2) following fourth year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program of Biotechnology in Microbiology and Immunology.
Name: MICB 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting, taken during the Winter Session (Term 1) of fifth year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program of Biotechnology in Microbiology and Immunology.
Name: MICB 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: Consult the Credit Exclusion List in the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.
Name: MICB 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MICB 506C Credits: 6 Desciption: Developing, discussing, and undertaking research projects.  Oral communication skills, peer review skills, scientific ethics, and the ability to critically evaluate papers in the literature.  To be taken only with permission of the department head.
Name: MICB 506D Credits: 3 Desciption: Developing, discussing, and undertaking research projects.  Oral communication skills, peer review skills, scientific ethics, and the ability to critically evaluate papers in the literature.  To be taken only with permission of the department head.
Name: MICB 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MICB 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: MICB 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: MEDI 430 Credits: 8 Desciption: Clinical activities including examination, diagnosis, on-going management and discharge planning of patients and participation in academic half-days, consisting of seminars and patient-related discussions.
Name: MEDI 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cell and molecular function in normal tissues and in specific disease processes, including, genetic, viral, bacterial, immune, and physiological disorders.
Name: MEDI 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: Laboratory experience with experimental models of human disease; critical reviews of their relevance. Laboratory rotations, oral presentations and written reviews. Registration requires permission of the Department.
Name: MEDI 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Framing appropriate research questions, appropriate research designs, protocol development, key concepts in regulatory approval and human ethical oversight in Canada, privacy and knowledge translation. For students pursuing clinical, patient oriented and translational research.
Name: MEDI 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pathogenesis and abnormal physiology in disease of the intestine and accessory organs; carcinogenesis; regulatory peptides; liver disease; inflammatory bowel disease; oesophageal dysfunction.
Name: MEDI 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reviews of research in selected areas of experimental medicine, including presentation of student's own research results.
Name: MEDI 548A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: MEDI 548B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MEDI 548C Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: MEDI 548D Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: MEDI 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: MEDI 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: Same as PATH 518.
Name: MEDI 570 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pathogenesis, abnormal physiology and therapeutic approaches in heart disease including cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, myocardial infarction, hypertension, atherosclerosis.
Name: MEDI 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cytokines and signal transduction mechanisms in the growth and differentiation of germ line, haemopoietic and other eukaryotic cells; actions of oncogene and tumor-suppressor gene products; molecular concepts derived from experimental model systems; molecular strategies of cytokine therapy.
Name: MEDI 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: MEDG 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Molecular basis of lymphocyte development, activation and adhesion; immunogenetics and the major histocompatibility complex. Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.
Name: MEDG 419 Credits: 3 Desciption: Genetic and epigenetic determinants of development from conception to birth. Topics include development of the neural tube, face, heart, endoderm, blastocyst, embryonic stem cells, gastrulation, genomic imprinting, placental complications, chromosomal abnormalities and prenatal diagnosis. Discussions based on published research articles.
Name: MEDG 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sequence and structure of the human genome. Human genetic evolution. Identification of genes affecting normal and pathological variation.  Molecular mechanisms of genetic diseases and disorders. Medical applications of human genetics.
Name: MEDG 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Molecular mechanisms of oncogenes and tumor suppressors and the effects of oncogenic mutations on the biology of cancer cells.
Name: MEDG 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: A supervised individual program of study of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of faculty and the student. Permission of the appropriate supervisor and the department head is required.
Name: MEDG 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: A supervised individual program of study of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of faculty and the student. Permission of the appropriate supervisor and the department head is required.
Name: MEDG 448C Credits: 6 Desciption: A supervised individual program of study of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of faculty and the student. Permission of the appropriate supervisor and the department head is required.
Name: MEDG 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of genetic information as it is organized within genomes, genetic and physical map construction, sequencing technologies, gene identification, database accessing and integration, functional organization of genomes from contemporary, historic and evolutionary perspectives.
Name: MEDG 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Genetic variation, genome analysis, cloning of genes for diseases and normal functions, mutation detection, animal models of human genetic disease.
Name: MEDG 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: Focuses on molecular and cell biology of cancer through a series of lectures, reviews, student presentations and discussion.
Name: MEDG 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: Human Mendelian and non-Mendelian inheritance and clinical applications of genetics.
Name: MEDG 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: This course is intended to serve the diverse needs of genetic counseling students, research graduate students in genetics, genetic residents and clinical fellows, other health professional students, and graduate students from other sciences and humanities.
Name: MEDG 545 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical discussion of current primary research literature in medical genetics.
Name: MEDG 548A Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of laboratory sessions, directed readings and directed counselling interviews related to selected areas of Medical Genetics. This advanced course may be taken upon approval of the department head.
Name: MEDG 548B Credits: 6 Desciption: A series of laboratory sessions, directed readings and directed counselling interviews related to selected areas of Medical Genetics. This advanced course may be taken upon approval of the department head.
Name: MEDG 548C Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of laboratory sessions, directed readings and directed counselling interviews related to selected areas of Medical Genetics. This advanced course may be taken upon approval of the department head.
Name: MEDG 548D Credits: 6 Desciption: A series of laboratory sessions, directed readings and directed counselling interviews related to selected areas of Medical Genetics. This advanced course may be taken upon approval of the department head.
Name: MEDG 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: MEDG 550 Credits: 6 Desciption: Practical applications, theories, and principles of medical genetics as they apply to genetic counselling.
Name: MEDG 560 Credits: 2 Desciption: Medical and genetic interviewing and family history taking; decision making; family dynamics; impact of congenital defects, genetic disease, and chronic disease on individuals and families; support groups and other community resources; computer resources; cross-cultural issues.
Name: MEDG 565 Credits: 2 Desciption: Patient attitudes toward genetic counselling; the grieving process in response to pregnancy loss, death, and disability; risk perception, attitudes toward prenatal testing, dealing with results of genetic testing, crisis counselling, giving bad news; ethical dilemmas; legal and professional issues.
Name: MEDG 570 Credits: 3 Desciption: Clinical experience in prenatal procedures and counselling; teratogen counselling. Clinically relevant experience in cytogenetics, molecular, biochemical disease and embryopathology laboratories.
Name: MEDG 575 Credits: 10 Desciption: In-depth clinical experience in general and prenatal genetic counselling.
Name: MEDG 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: MEDD 411 Credits: 17 Desciption: Integrating foundational and clinical sciences and clinical practice themes. Case-based approach fostering the development of evidence-based clinical reasoning and clinical skills. Organized on the basis of clinical presentations. Pass/fail.
Name: MEDD 412 Credits: 15 Desciption: Increasingly complex clinical presentations through integration of foundational and clinical sciences and clinical practice themes. Developmental, case-based approach fostering the development of evidence-based clinical reasoning and clinical skills. Pass/fail.
Name: MEDD 419 Credits: 8 Desciption: Various medically-related learning experiences and scholarly activities. Emphasizes social accountability, introduces scholarly methods, and fosters innovation, creativity, and critical thought to prepare graduates for roles as scholars, life-long learners, and leaders. Pass/fail.
Name: MEDD 421 Credits: 15 Desciption: Increasingly complex clinical presentations integrating foundational sciences and clinical practice themes. Developmental, case-based approach fostering the development of evidence-based clinical reasoning and clinical skills. Pass/Fail.
Name: MEDD 422 Credits: 15 Desciption: Prepares students to transition from classroom-based to clinical learning environments. Increasingly complex clinical presentations integrating foundational sciences and clinical practice themes. Prepares students for clinical practice in Year 3 Clerkship. Pass/Fail.
Name: MEDD 429 Credits: 6 Desciption: Opportunity to build on scholarly activities initiated in MEDD 419, or start new ones. Emphasizes social accountability and fosters innovation, creativity, and critical thought to prepare graduates for roles as scholars, life-long learners, and leaders. Pass/Fail.
Name: MEDD 431 Credits: 48 Desciption: Core experiences across the breadth of medicine through clinical and academic learning opportunities in ambulatory, hospital-based, and rural/remote settings. Interactions with patients under supervision. Pass/Fail.
Name: MECH 220 Credits: 4 Desciption: Engineering graphics, spatial visualization, CAD, equation solvers, machine shop practice, electronic circuit construction and troubleshooting, elements of engineering science.
Name: MECH 221 Credits: 12 Desciption: Rigid body kinetics and kinematics, basic electrical circuits, work and power, stress and strain, torsion, bending, engineering materials, probability and statistics. This course includes the content of ELEC 203.
Name: MECH 222 Credits: 6 Desciption: Fluid properties, equations of state. Pressure, buoyancy, hydrostatic forces. Conservation of mass, momentum, and energy. Work and heat; internal energy and enthalpy. Bernoulli's equation. Dimensional analysis, modeling. Turbulent flow in pipes; turbomachinery. Second law and the Carnot cycle; entropy; first and second law analysis of systems.
Name: MECH 223 Credits: 7 Desciption: Design methodology, synthesis and analysis. Design projects representing both mechanical mechanism design and thermofluid systems.
Name: MECH 224 Credits: 1 Desciption: Integration of the theory and practice of Mechanical Engineering to illustrate the commonality and conceptual connectivity of seemingly different technical areas. Emphasis on dynamics, solid mechanics, materials, electronics, and mathematics.
Name: MECH 225 Credits: 1 Desciption: Integration of the theory and practice of Mechanical Engineering to illustrate the commonality and conceptual connectivity of seemingly different technical areas. Emphasis on thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and mathematics.
Name: MECH 226 Credits: 3 Desciption: Written and oral communication. Preparation of design reports, business correspondence, verbal, online, and visual presentation of technical material.  Restricted to students in the second year of Mechanical Engineering.
Name: MECH 260 Credits: 3 Desciption: Statically determinate frames and trusses; normal and shear stresses and strains; shear force and bending moment diagrams; theory of beam bending, torsion of circular rods; transformation of stress and strain in two and three dimensions, Mohr's circle; yield and ultimate failure criteria.
Name: MECH 280 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fluid properties; statics; kinematics, dynamics, energy, and momentum principles for control volumes; dimensional analysis and similarity; laminar and turbulent flow; pipe flow; principles of centrifugal pumps.
Name: MECH 305 Credits: 6 Desciption: The use of probability and statistical methods for engineering applications. Mechanics of materials, heat transfer, and fluid dynamics. Instrumentation, data acquisition, and data manipulation using modern computational tools.
Name: MECH 306 Credits: 4 Desciption: The use of probability and statistical methods for engineering applications. Mechanics of materials and heat transfer. Instrumentation, data acquisition, and data manipulation using modern computational tools. Common mechanical devices. For students in the Mechatronics Option only.
Name: MECH 325 Credits: 4 Desciption: Selection of flexible drives, bearings, hydraulic system components, and couplings. Design of bolted joints and power screws. Design and selection of gears, gear trains, and mechanisms.
Name: MECH 326 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design of shafts and welded joints. Fatigue and fracture considerations in design: failure types, failure under static and dynamic loading, fatigue failure, crack initiation, and propagation. Introduction to the FEM in mechanical design.
Name: MECH 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: Air standard and vapor cycles; first and second law of cycles. Exergy. Gas mixtures.  Energy conservation. Equilibrium. Reacting systems. Application to thermofluid systems such as power plants.
Name: MECH 328 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design project course linked to MECH 325, MECH 326, or MECH 327. Applying the design process, making educated assumptions and decisions, and working in teams to provide a new mechanical design. Weekly lecture discussing product development and various factors affecting the design.
Name: MECH 329 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selection of material properties and processing techniques for mechanical design. Properties of steel and other alloys. Heat treatment. Ceramics, composites, plastics.
Name: MECH 358 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fourier series; auto- and cross-correlation; power spectra; discrete Fourier transform; boundary-value problems; numerical methods; partial differential equations; heat, wave, Laplace, Poisson, and wave equations.  Applications to mechanical engineering and practical computing emphasized.  Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 358 and MATH 358.
Name: MECH 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: Beam deflections, singularity functions; use of tabulated solutions; column buckling; Castigliano's theorem, statically indeterminate beams, bending of beams with asymmetric cross-sections, shear centre; principal stresses and stress invariants in three dimensions.
Name: MECH 366 Credits: 3 Desciption: Modeling of mechanical, electrical, thermal, fluid elements and mixed mechatronic systems. Signal processing, signal conditioning. Sensors, data acquisition systems, actuators.
Name: MECH 368 Credits: 3 Desciption: Industrial measurement needs including: architecture of electronic instrumentation systems; electrical representation of physical quantities; sensors and actuators; analog signal processing using linear and non-linear circuits; computer based readout including programming for user-interface and data acquisition.
Name: MECH 375 Credits: 3 Desciption: Steady and transient conduction. Radiation heat transfer. Convective heat and mass transfer in pipes and from external surfaces. Design of heat exchangers.
Name: MECH 380 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of principles, compressible flow, potential flow, simple laminar viscous flow, boundary layers, flow around bluff bodies.
Name: MECH 386 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of piping networks. Review of pumps, turbines and hydraulic motors. Flow measurement devices such as flow meters and transducers for measuring velocity and pressure. Multiphase flows. Introduction to turbulence, mixing and buoyancy driven flows.
Name: MECH 392 Credits: 2 Desciption: Manufacturing characteristics of materials and their control. Metal forming processes, plastic deformations, rolling, forging, drawing, extrusion, sheet metal forming. Machining processes and machine tools, turning, milling, drilling, grinding. Metal fabrication, welding and casting. An introduction to process planning.
Name: MECH 410R Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures and readings on specialized topics of current interest in Mechanical Engineering.
Name: MECH 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Measurement of motion, stress, force, torque, temperature, flow and pressure; principles of sensors and signal conditioning methods; selection and sizing of actuators.
Name: MECH 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Architecture of mechatronics devices; integration of mechanical, electronics, sensors, actuators, computer and real time software systems; PLC and PC based systems; discrete and continuous automation system design.
Name: MECH 423 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design of mechatronic systems for industrial and human-centric applications; compliant structures; electronic circuits to interface with sensors and actuators; embedded systems; precision timing and control; data acquisition and processing; user interfaces; and product innovation.
Name: MECH 431 Credits: 3 Desciption: Discounted cash flows. Sources of funds, cost of capital. Effects of depreciation, taxes, inflation. Evaluation and comparison of economic models for engineering projects. Replacement decisions. Public project analysis. Risk analysis. Project control, inventory analysis, simulation.
Name: MECH 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of principles, biorheology, circulatory biofluid mechanics, synovial fluid in joints, biofluid dynamics of the human brain, respiratory biofluid mechanics, flow and pressure measurement techniques in human body.
Name: MECH 435 Credits: 3 Desciption: Musculoskeletal anatomy. Muscle and joint loads. Muscle mechanics. Musculoskeletal dynamics. Gait. Tissue mechanics of tendon, ligament, articular cartilage, and bone. Biomaterials. Application examples in orthopaedics including joint replacement and fracture fixation.
Name: MECH 436 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to injury biomechanics. Anatomy. Impact experiments. Multi-body dynamic simulation and finite element analysis. Skull, face, brain, spine, eye, pelvis, abdomen, and extremity injury. Anthropomorphic test devices, seat belts, airbags, child restraints, and helmets. Credit cannot be obtained for both MECH 436 and MECH 536.
Name: MECH 439 Credits: 1 Desciption: Seminar in Biomechanics research.
Name: MECH 454 Credits: 6 Desciption: A capstone course to provide students experience in the design/development of practical mechanical and thermofluids devices. Projects are provided by local industry and engineering research laboratories. Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 454, MECH 457, MECH 458, MECH 459, or APSC 496.
Name: MECH 457 Credits: 6 Desciption: A capstone design project designed to give students experience in the design/development of practical mechanical devices. Projects are provided by local industry and engineering research laboratories. Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 454, MECH 457, MECH 458, MECH 459, or APSC 496.
Name: MECH 458 Credits: 6 Desciption: A capstone design program designed to give students experience in the design/development of practical mechanical and mechatronics devices. Projects are provided by local industry and engineering research laboratories. Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 454, MECH 457, MECH 458, MECH 459, or APSC 496.
Name: MECH 459 Credits: 6 Desciption: A capstone design program designed to give students experience in the design and development of practical biomedical devices. Projects are provided by local industry and engineering research laboratories. For students in the Biomedical Option only. Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 454, MECH 457, MECH 458, MECH 459, or APSC 496.
Name: MECH 460 Credits: 3 Desciption: Axisymmetric membrane stresses in thin shells of revolution, stresses in thick-walled cylinders and rotating disks, beams on elastic foundations, axisymmetric bending of cylindrical shells, axisymmetric bending of circular plates.
Name: MECH 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and element selection. Virtual work and weighted residual formulation. Linear elastic analysis. Heat transfer analysis. Isoparametic elements. Development of computer programs for simple problems. Utilization of existing computer packages. Application to mechanical engineering problems.
Name: MECH 463 Credits: 4 Desciption: Theory of vibration of mechanical systems. Undamped 1 degree of freedom vibration, forced vibrations and resonance, damping, multiple degree of freedom systems, mode shapes and orthogonality, continuous systems, vibration measuring instruments and frequency spectrum analysis.
Name: MECH 464 Credits: 3 Desciption: Definition and classification of industrial robotic devices. Selection and implementation issues. Workcell environments. Forward and inverse kinematics, dynamics, trajectory planning. Sensing and manipulation tasks. Control architectures. Credit will be granted for only one of ELEC 442, EECE 487, MECH 464, or MECH 563.
Name: MECH 466 Credits: 4 Desciption: Process and system characteristics; transient response; the closed loop; block diagrams and transfer functions; control actions; stability; Nyquist diagrams; Bode diagrams; root locus methods; frequency response; system compensation; nonlinear control systems; digital computer control. Laboratory experiments to support the lecture content. Credit cannot be obtained for both MECH 466 and MECH 467.
Name: MECH 467 Credits: 4 Desciption: Block diagrams and transfer functions, continuous and discrete domain transformations, feedback control system characteristics, control design in both continuous and discrete domain, absolute and relative stability, laboratory examples of Mechatronic systems design. Credit cannot be obtained for both MECH 466 and MECH 467.
Name: MECH 468 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to state space control methods for linear systems including modal control, controllability, observability, linear quadratic regulators, optimal control.
Name: MECH 469 Credits: 3 Desciption: Modeling of mechanical, electrical, fluid, and thermal systems; analytical models; model representations such as linear and bond graphs; response analysis; digital simulation.
Name: MECH 470 Credits: 3 Desciption: Energy supply and demand. Energy conversion chain. Electrical power generation using thermal power plants, renewable energy, and fuel cells. Rankine cycle steam power. Brayton cycle gas turbine power plants, intercooling, reheat, and regeneration. Internal combustion engines. Exhaust gas after treatment. Combined and binary cycles. Nuclear power.
Name: MECH 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of air conditioning; psychometrics and refrigeration. Heat transfer through building materials. Estimation of heating and cooling loads including the use of current software. System design. Ground, air and water source heat pumps.
Name: MECH 478 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of spark and compression ignition engines. Calculation of fuel economy, power, and emission. Practical and regulatory considerations in engine design. Engine emission and control systems. Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 478 or MECH 578.
Name: MECH 479 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques for numerical solution of ordinary and partial differential equations, including an introduction to the finite difference, finite volume and finite element approaches. Simulation of laminar and turbulent flows, including common turbulent models. Validation techniques.
Name: MECH 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: Low speed aerodynamics of airfoils, wings, wind tunnels.
Name: MECH 484 Credits: 3 Desciption: Aircraft performance, stability and control, loading and air worthiness. Detailed example.
Name: MECH 485 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of aircraft wing structure, moments of inertia for complex shapes, crippling loads, shear lag.
Name: MECH 488 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ship terminology, lines plans, ship hydrostatics, transverse and longitudinal stability of ships, dimensional analysis, ship resistance prediction; ship propulsion methods, propeller selection and design.
Name: MECH 489 Credits: 4 Desciption: Experimental uncertainty. Design of experiments. Test facilities. Temperature and pressure measurement techniques and instrumentation. Velocity and flow rate measurement techniques. Flow visualization. Case studies of industrial and research experimental practice. Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 489 or MECH 582.
Name: MECH 491 Credits: 3 Desciption: NC programming and machining with interactive CAD/CAM systems. Curve and surface geometry for tool-path generation. Tool-path generation methodologies. Geometric modeling techniques for simulation and verification of manufacturing processes. Introduction to Computer-Aided Process Planning. Supplementary tutorial laboratory experiments.
Name: MECH 493 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research project directed by a faculty member in Mechanical Engineeing.
Name: MECH 495 Credits: 3 Desciption: Organizational structure. Manufacturing systems and group technology. Classification and coding. Scheduling and sequencing of operations. Forecasting. Quality control for variables and attributes. Plant location. System reliability analysis. Advanced manufacturing automation concepts.
Name: MECH 496 Credits: 3 Desciption: Organization structures. Management styles. Cost systems and control. Financial statements; accounting procedures. Budgets and performance control. Project management. Human resources management.
Name: MECH 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: Governing equations; viscous incompressible flow, incompressible potential flow; incompressible boundary layers, stability and turbulence; compressible potential flow.
Name: MECH 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamentals of acoustics and vibrations, physiologic effects, measurement, instrumentation, interpretation of data, industrial standards, and control. For students in Occupational and Environmental Hygiene; other graduate students may enrol with permission of the instructor.
Name: MECH 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: Newtonian mechanics; generalized co-ordinates and analytical mechanics; Lagrange equations; Hamilton's Principle; rotational motion and rigid body dynamics; Gyroscopic motion; phase space, equilibrium, and stability of motion; stability characteristics of autonomous systems; Hamilton-Jacobi method; applications.
Name: MECH 510 Credits: 4 Desciption: Analytical, computational, and experimental methods in fluid mechanics. Overview of CFD program development. Finite volume methods, spacial discretization and spatial accuracy analysis. Boundary conditions. Time advance methods, time accuracy, and stability. Application to model problems and to the incompressible laminar Navier-Stokes equations. Validation techniques for CFD codes.
Name: MECH 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and element selection.  Virtual work and weighted residual formulation.  Linear elastic analysis.  Heat transfer analysis.  Isoparametic elements.  Computer program development.  Utilization of existing computer packages.  Credit is given for one of MECH 514 and MECH 462.
Name: MECH 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of control, instrumentation and design. Performance specification of control components, component matching, error analysis. Operating principles, analysis, modelling, design considerations of control sensors and actuators such as analog sensors for motion measurement, digital transducers, stepper motors, DC motors, induction motors, synchronous motors, and hydraulic actuators. Control techniques pertaining to actuators. Applications.
Name: MECH 522 Credits: 4 Desciption: State space model; stability; controlability; observability; Kalman decomposition; state feedback; oberver; linear quadratic regulator; Kalman filter. Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 468 or 522.
Name: MECH 529 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced modeling of mechanical, electrical, fluid, thermal and multi-domain systems; inter-domain analogies; analytical models in time and frequency domains; modeling tools; response analysis; digital simulation; practical project.
Name: MECH 533 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles, biorheology, circulatory biofluid mechanics, synovial fluid in joints, biofluid dynamics of the human brain, respiratory biofluid mechanics, flow and pressure measurement techniques in the human body. Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 433 or 533.
Name: MECH 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: Musculoskeletal anatomy. Static and dynamic analysis of the musculoskeletal system. Gait. Musculoskeletal tissue mechanics. Biomaterials. Advanced study of relevant problems in orthopaedics, including joint replacement, fracture fixation, and spinal disorders. Credit given for only one of MECH 435 and MECH 535.
Name: MECH 536 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to injury biomechanics. Anatomy. Impact experiments. Multi-body dynamic simulation and finite element analysis. Skull, face, brain, eye, pelvis, abdomen, and extremity injury. Anthropomorphic test devices, seat belts, airbags, child restraints, and helmets. Credit cannot be obtained for both MECH436 and MECH536.
Name: MECH 550C Credits: 3 Desciption: Special advanced lecture courses may be arranged for graduate students upon the approval of the department head. There will not be more than 6 credits in any one such course.
Name: MECH 550E Credits: 3 Desciption: Special advanced lecture courses may be arranged for graduate students upon the approval of the department head. There will not be more than 6 credits in any one such course.
Name: MECH 550H Credits: 3 Desciption: Special advanced lecture courses may be arranged for graduate students upon the approval of the department head. There will not be more than 6 credits in any one such course.
Name: MECH 550J Credits: 3 Desciption: Special advanced lecture courses may be arranged for graduate students upon the approval of the department head. There will not be more than 6 credits in any one such course.
Name: MECH 550L Credits: 3 Desciption: Special advanced lecture courses may be arranged for graduate students upon the approval of the department head. There will not be more than 6 credits in any one such course.
Name: MECH 550N Credits: 3 Desciption: Special advanced lecture courses may be arranged for graduate students upon the approval of the department head. There will not be more than 6 credits in any one such course.
Name: MECH 550P Credits: 3 Desciption: Special advanced lecture courses may be arranged for graduate students upon the approval of the department head. There will not be more than 6 credits in any one such course.
Name: MECH 551 Credits: 6 Desciption: The design, analysis, manufacturability, instrumentation and computer control of a selected dynamic machinery assembly will be studied.
Name: MECH 552 Credits: 6 Desciption: The full assembly, instrumentation, computer and electronic interfacing, and testing of a dynamic machine.
Name: MECH 561 Credits: 3 Desciption: Stress and strain in three dimensions, fundamental field equations of linear elasticity; equilibrium, compatibility, Hooke's law; Papkovitch-Neuber solution, plane stress and plane strain; torsion, torsion of thin-walled members with warping restraint; plate theory.
Name: MECH 563 Credits: 3 Desciption: Definitions and classification Kinematics: homogeneous transformations, manipulator kinematic equations, forward and inverse kinematic solution methods, differential kinematic equations, motion trajectories. Dynamics: Lagrange-Euler formulations, Newton-Euler formulation. Control: methods of control, robot control hierarchy, control of single joint and multiple link manipulators, advanced control methods.
Name: MECH 572 Credits: 3 Desciption: Governing equations for laminar and turbulent flow. Forced convection in internal and external flow. Free, and combined free and forced convection. Heat transfer at high velocities, in rarefied gases and in two-phase flow. Mass transfer.
Name: MECH 575A Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: MECH 575B Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: MECH 576 Credits: 3 Desciption: Thermodynamics of combustion, stoichiometry, heat of formation and reaction. Equilibrium composition and adiabatic flame temperature. Chemical kinetics of combustion. Flames in premixed gases; laminar and turbulent flame propagation. Diffusion flames, pollutant emissions and combustion in IC engines.
Name: MECH 578 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of spark and compression ignition engines. Calculation of fuel economy, power and emission. Practical and regulatory considerations in engine design. Numerical engine modeling and analysis. Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 478 or MECH 578.
Name: MECH 582 Credits: 4 Desciption: Modelling Test facilities. Wind tunnel force measurement. Theory of conventional and modern manometry. Classical velocimetry. Hotwire anemometry. Theory and application of laser Doppler velocimetry. Particle image velocimetry. Flow visualization techniques. Thermometry. Credit will not be given for both MECH 489 and MECH 582.
Name: MECH 589 Credits: 4 Desciption: Digital control laws for servo drives; state space and transfer function models of feed drives; tracking errors; trajectory generation of multi-axis machines; contouring analysis of multi-axes servo drives; real time linear and circular interpolation methods supported by laboratory applications. Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 467 or MECH 589.
Name: MECH 592 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of metal cutting mechanics, milling, static deformations of machine tools. Machine tool vibrations, forced and self excited vibrations in machining, chatter, stability. Sensors for machine tool monitoring and adaptive control. Sensor assisted intelligent machining techniques.
Name: MECH 596 Credits: 3 Desciption: 3D geometric modeling; parametric representation of curves and surfaces; CNC machine tool programming; milling operations and setup; tool path generation for three- and five-axis sculptured surface machining.
Name: MECH 597 Credits: 6 Desciption: Project on assigned topic of specialization. For students registered in the M.Eng. program whose project is supervised by a faculty member in the department of Mechanical Engineering.
Name: MECH 598 Credits: 2 Desciption: Current topics in mechanical engineering research for M.A.Sc. students.
Name: MECH 599B Credits: 12 Desciption: For M.A.Sc.
Name: MECH 698 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics in mechanical engineering for doctoral students.
Name: MECH 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: MDVL 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the study of the medieval period in Western Europe (400-1550), integrating history, literature, and the arts; topics vary from year to year; interested students should consult the Medieval Studies Advisor.
Name: MDVL 301A Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected works from the 5th to the 14th centuries in their cultural and social contexts.
Name: MDVL 310D Credits: 3 Desciption: Interdisciplinary approaches to selected topics in medieval history, literature, and the arts; topics vary from year to year; interested students should consult the Medieval Studies advisor.
Name: MATH 001 Credits: 0 Desciption: Numbers and their properties; exponents, radicals, absolute value, inqualities, functions and their graphs; factoring; solving polynomial, rational, and exponetial equations; and the sine and cosine law. Non-credit Math course offered by Continuing Studies in consultation with the Mathematics Department and taught by Continuing Studies instructors.
Name: MATH 002 Credits: 0 Desciption: Composite, inverse, polynomial, rational, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions; sequences and series; and analytical geometry. Non-credit Math course offered by Continuing Studies in consultation with the Mathematics Department and taught by Continuing Studies instructors.
Name: MATH 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: The definite integral, integration techniques, applications, modeling, infinite series. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Functions, derivatives, optimization, growth and decay, discrete probability. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 103 Credits: 3 Desciption: Antiderivatives and definite integrals, infinite series, applications to probability and dynamical systems. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 104 Credits: 3 Desciption: Derivatives and rates of change, exponential and trigonometric functions, Newton's method, Taylor polynomials, maxima and minima, and graphing. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 105 Credits: 3 Desciption: Antiderivatives, the definite integral, techniques of integration, infinite series, partial derivatives, maxima and minima with constraints, discrete and continuous random variables. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 110 Credits: 6 Desciption: Topics as for MATH 100, but including relevant topics from algebra, geometry, functions, trigonometry, logarithms, and exponentials.
Name: MATH 120 Credits: 4 Desciption: Limits, derivatives, Mean Value Theorem and applications, elementary functions, optimization, Taylor series, approximation. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 121 Credits: 4 Desciption: Definite integrals and the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, techniques and applications of integration, infinite series. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 152 Credits: 3 Desciption: 2D and 3D geometry, vectors and matrices, eigenvalues and vibration, physical applications. Laboratories demonstrate computer solutions of large systems. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 180 Credits: 4 Desciption: Topics as for Math 100; intended for students with no previous knowledge of Calculus. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414. Not for credit for students with AP Calculus AB, AP Calculus BC, or a passing score on the UBC-SFU-UVIC-UNBC Calculus Challenge Examination.
Name: MATH 184 Credits: 4 Desciption: Topics as for Math 104; intended for students with no previous knowledge of Calculus. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.  Not for credit for students with AP Calculus AB, AP Calculus BC, or a passing score on the UBC-SFU-UVIC-UNBC Calculus Challenge Examination.
Name: MATH 190 Credits: 4 Desciption: Functions, derivatives, integrals, curve sketching growth functions, volume calculations.  Only for credit in the Faculty of Forestry.  Students with credit for MATH 100, 102, 104, 120, 180, or 184 cannot in the same term or later terms obtain credit for MATH 190.
Name: MATH 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analytic geometry in 2 and 3 dimensions, partial and directional derivatives, chain rule, maxima and minima, second derivative test, Lagrange multipliers, multiple integrals with applications. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to numerical computation, computer algebra, mathematical graphics. Primarily for second year students taking a degree in mathematics. One hour laboratory each week.
Name: MATH 215 Credits: 3 Desciption: First-order equations; linear equations; linear systems; Laplace transforms; numerical methods; trajectory analysis of plane nonlinear systems. Applications of these topics will be emphasized. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 217 Credits: 4 Desciption: Partial differentiation, extreme values, multiple integration, vector fields, line and surface integrals, the divergence theorem, Green's and Stokes' theorems.  Intended for students in Honours Physics and Engineering Physics. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sets and functions; induction; cardinality;  properties of the real numbers; sequences, series, and limits. Logic, structure, style, and clarity of proofs emphasized throughout.
Name: MATH 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: Systems of linear equations, operations on matrices, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization of symmetric matrices. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 223 Credits: 3 Desciption: Matrices, eigenvectors, diagonalization, orthogonality, linear systems, applications. Intended for Honours students. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 226 Credits: 3 Desciption: Functions of several variables: limits, continuity, differentiability; implicit functions; Taylor's theorem; extrema; Lagrange multipliers; multiple integration, Fubini's theorem; improper integrals. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 227 Credits: 3 Desciption: Parametrization of curves and surfaces; line and surface integrals; theorems of Green, Gauss, Stokes; applications to physics and/or introduction to differential forms. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 253 Credits: 3 Desciption: Partial and directional derivatives; maxima and minima; Lagrange multipliers and second derivative test; multiple integrals and applications. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 255 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of linear systems; nonlinear equations and applications; phase plane analysis; Laplace transforms; numerical methods. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 256 Credits: 3 Desciption: Linear ordinary differential equations, Laplace transforms, Fourier series and separation of variables for linear partial differential equations. Tutorial session focuses on examples from chemical and biological engineering. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfmtree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 257 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to partial differential equations; Fourier series; the heat, wave and potential equations; boundary-value problems; numerical methods. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 264 Credits: 1 Desciption: Divergence, gradient, curl, theorems of Gauss and Stokes. Applications to Electrostatics and Magnetostatics. MATH 264 content is strongly coupled to ELEC 211 with topics and student evaluations weighted accordingly.
Name: MATH 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Functions of a complex variable, Cauchy-Riemann equations, elementary functions, Cauchy's theorem and contour integration, Laurent series, poles and residues. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integrals involving multi-valued functions, conformal mapping and applications, analytic continuation, Laplace and Fourier transforms.
Name: MATH 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic notions of probability, random variables, expectation and conditional expectation, limit theorems.   Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Discrete-time Markov chains, Poisson processes, continuous time Markov chains, renewal theory. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Functions of a complex variable, Cauchy-Riemann equations, contour integration, Laurent series, residues, integrals of multi-valued functions, Fourier transforms.  See Credit Exclusion List [link to http://www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414].
Name: MATH 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: Applications of linear algebra to problems in science and engineering; use of computer algebra systems for solving problems in linear algebra.
Name: MATH 308 Credits: 3 Desciption: Classical plane geometry, solid geometry, spherical trigonometry, polyhedra, linear and affine transformations. Linear algebra proofs are used. It is suggested that MATH 307 be taken concurrently.
Name: MATH 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Linear spaces, duality, linear mappings, matrices, determinant and trace, spectral theory, Euclidean structure. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfmtree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Euclidean algorithm, congruences, Fermat's theorem, applications. Some diophantine equations. Distribution of the prime numbers. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics chosen by the instructor. These might include: division algorithms, group theory, continued fractions, primality testing, factoring.  Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 316 Credits: 3 Desciption: Power series methods (ordinary and regular singular points, Bessel's equation); boundary value problems and separation of variables (Fourier series and other orthogonal series), applications to the vibrating string, heat flow, potentials. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 317 Credits: 3 Desciption: Parametrizations, inverse and implicit functions, integrals with respect to length and area; grad, div, and curl, theorems of Green, Gauss, and Stokes. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 318 Credits: 3 Desciption: Random variables, discrete and continuous distributions. Random walk, Markov chains, Monte Carlo methods. Characteristic functions, limit laws. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: The real number system; real Euclidean n-space; open, closed, compact, and connected sets; Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem; sequences and series. Continuity and uniform continuity. Differentiability and mean-value theorems.
Name: MATH 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: The Riemann or Riemann-Stieltjes integrals. Sequences and series of functions, uniform convergence. Approximation of continuous functions by polynomials. Fourier series. Functions from Rm to Rn, inverse and implicit function theorems.
Name: MATH 322 Credits: 3 Desciption: Groups, cosets, homomorphisms, group actions, p-groups, Sylow theorems, composition series, finitely generated Abelian groups.
Name: MATH 323 Credits: 3 Desciption: Rings, ideals, unique factorization, Euclidean rings, fields, polynomial rings, modules; structure theory of modules over a principal ideal domain.
Name: MATH 335 Credits: 4 Desciption: Intensive course with required tutorial. Combinatorics, probability, geometry and elementary number theory. Not for credit in the Faculty of Science. Students who obtain credit at UBC for any other mathematics course cannot in the same or later years obtain credit for MATH 335. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Linear programming problems, dual problems, the simplex algorithm, solution of primal and dual problems, sensitivity analysis. Additional topics chosen from: Karmarkar's algorithm, non-linear programming, game theory, applications.
Name: MATH 341 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to ideas and methods of discrete mathematics and their application.
Name: MATH 342 Credits: 3 Desciption: Error-correcting codes via abstract and linear algebra.  Emphasis on proofs and computation.  Finite fields, Hamming distance and error-correction, upper and lower bounds on the size of a code, linear codes, groups and cosets, encoding and decoding schemes.
Name: MATH 345 Credits: 3 Desciption: Phase plane methods, bifurcation and stability theory, limit-cycle behavior and chaos for nonlinear differential equations with applications to the sciences.  Assignments involve the use of computers.
Name: MATH 358 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fourier series; auto- and cross-correlation; power spectra;  discrete Fourier transform; boundary-value problems; numerical methods; partial differential equations; heat, wave, Laplace, Poisson, and wave equations.  Applications to mechanical engineering and practical computing applications emphasized.  Credit will be granted for only one of MECH 358 or MATH 358.
Name: MATH 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of model selection and basic modeling techniques in biology, earth science, chemistry and physics. Optimization, dynamical systems and stochastic processes. Preference will be given to Combined Major in Science students, or to students in Year 3 or higher.
Name: MATH 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience involving mathematics in industry for a minimum of 3.5 months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Mathematics Co-operative Education Program.
Name: MATH 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience involving mathematics in industry for a minimum of 3.5 months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Mathematics Co-operative Education Program.
Name: MATH 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Separation of variables, first order equations, Sturm-Liouville theory, integral transform methods.
Name: MATH 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Green's functions for partial differential equations. Calculus of variations. Eigenfunction expansions. Rayleigh-Ritz and finite element methods.  See Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interpolation, numerical integration, numerical solution of ordinary and partial differential equations. Practical computational methods emphasized and basic theory developed through simple models. See Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Variational and Green's function methods for ordinary and partial differential equations, introduction to finite difference, finite element and boundary element methods.  See Faculty of Science Credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414
Name: MATH 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics include decompositions of linear operators, multi linear algebra, bilinear forms, metric spaces.
Name: MATH 414 Credits: 3 Desciption: Students will prepare material illustrating ideas and applications of mathematics and present it to audiences outside the University. Intended for third or fourth year Mathematics students and Math/Science Education students.
Name: MATH 418 Credits: 3 Desciption: Probability spaces, random variables, distributions, expectation, conditional probabilities, convergence of random variables, generating and characteristic functions, weak and strong laws of large numbers, central limit theorem.
Name: MATH 419 Credits: 3 Desciption: Random walks, Markov chains, branching processes, Poisson processes, continuous time Markov chains, martingales, Brownian motion.
Name: MATH 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sigma-algebras, Lebesgue measure, Borel measures, measurable functions, integration, convergence theorems, Lp spaces, Holder and Minkowski inequalities, Lebesgue and/or Radon-Nikodym differentiation.
Name: MATH 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Banach spaces, linear operators, bounded and compact operators, strong, weak, and weak* topology.  Hahn-Banach, open mapping, and closed graph theorems.  Hilbert spaces, symmetric and self-adjoint operators, spectral theory for bounded operators.
Name: MATH 422 Credits: 3 Desciption: Field extensions, the Galois correspondence, finite fields, insolvability in radicals, ruler and compass constructions, additional topics chosen by instructor.
Name: MATH 423 Credits: 3 Desciption: Commutative algebra, algebraic geometry, algebraic number theory, Lie theory, homological algebra and category theory, or some other advanced topic in algebra.
Name: MATH 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: Riemannian manifolds, tensors and differential forms, curvature and geodesics.
Name: MATH 426 Credits: 3 Desciption: General topology, combinatorial topology, fundamental group and covering spaces, topics chosen by the instructor.
Name: MATH 427 Credits: 3 Desciption: Homology theory, homotopy theory, manifolds, and other topics chosen by the instructor.
Name: MATH 430D Credits: 3 Desciption: The student should consult the Mathematics Department for the particular topics offered in a given year.
Name: MATH 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: Divisibility, congruences, Diophantine equations, arithmetic functions, quadratic reciprocity, advanced topics. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: MATH 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: The residue theorem, the argument principle, conformal mapping, the maximum modulus principle, harmonic functions, representation of functions by integrals, series, and products. Other topics at the discretion of the instructor.
Name: MATH 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: Formulation of real-world optimization problems using techniques such as linear programming, network flows, integer programming, dynamic programming. Solution by appropriate software.
Name: MATH 442 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic graph theory, emphasizing trees, tree growing algorithms, and proof techniques. Problems chosen from: shortest paths, maximum flows, minimum cost flows, matchings, graph colouring. Linear programming duality will be an important tool.
Name: MATH 443 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introductory course in mostly non-algorithmic topics including: planarity and Kuratowski's theorem, graph colouring, graph minors, random graphs, cycles in graphs, Ramsey theory, extremal graph theory. Proofs emphasized. Intended for Honours students.
Name: MATH 444 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current research topics in pure and applied mathematics are explored at the undergraduate level.  Technical communication and research skills are developed.
Name: MATH 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the methods of mathematical research through an exploration of a mathematical topic under the supervision of a faculty member.  Written report required.
Name: MATH 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the methods of mathematical research through an exploration of a mathematical topic under the supervision of a faculty member.  Written report required.
Name: MATH 449D Credits: 3 Desciption: Independent reading by Honours students in Mathematics under the direction of a faculty member. Written report required.
Name: MATH 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Asymptotic expansions. Asymptotic evaluation of integrals; WKBJ methods. Regular and singular expansions. Boundary layer theory; matched asymptotic expansions. Multiple scale techniques.
Name: MATH 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development and analysis of mathematical models for complex systems in ecology, evolution, cell biology, neurophysiology, and other biological and medical disciplines.
Name: MATH 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience involving mathematics in industry for a minimum of 3 1/2 months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Mathematics Co-operative Education Program.
Name: MATH 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience involving mathematics in industry for a minimum of 3 1/2 months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Mathematics Co-operative Education Program.
Name: MATH 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 523 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 525 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 534 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 537 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 539 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 545 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 546 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 552 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ideas, methods and applications of bifurcation theory and dynamical systems: differential and difference equations, local bifurcations, perturbation methods, chaos.
Name: MATH 556 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mathematical methods in modeling biological processes, at levels from cell biochemistry to community ecology.
Name: MATH 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: Formulation and analysis of models of excitable media.  FitzHugh-Nagumo model, ionic models of membrane excitability (e.g., Hodgkin-Huxley), calcium excitability, bursting phenomena.
Name: MATH 589 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 592A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 599 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 600D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 601D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 603D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 606D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 607E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 608D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 615A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 615B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: MATH 620D Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced study under the direction of a faculty member may be arranged in special situations.
Name: MATH 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: LWS 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Land and water system evaluations and assessing resource development options: monitoring and modeling environmental systems.
Name: LWS 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of LWS 510 or SOIL 510.
Name: LWS 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods of watershed evaluation, land-water interactions, key aspects of hydrology, water quality and aquatic biota, land use impacts on water resources, community involvement, and integration of multiple land use activities and their cumulative impacts.  Credit will be granted for only one of LWS 515, SOIL 515 or RMES 515.
Name: LWS 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics in land and water system evaluations and assessing resource development options: monitoring and modeling environmental systems.
Name: LWS 548 Credits: 6 Desciption: Professional paper on topics focusing on emerging issues in water and land resources. Credit will be granted for only one of LWS 548 or SOIL 548.
Name: LWS 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of LWS 550 or SOIL 550.
Name: LLED 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of sociolinguistic knowledge and skills that are central to the production of academic and professional texts.
Name: LLED 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 212 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sociolinguistic analysis of language variation according to age, ethnicity, class, race, and gender, and how these variations function in both reflecting and constructing specific identities and memberships in society.
Name: LLED 213 Credits: 3 Desciption: The processes by which individuals become competent members of society through the use of language.
Name: LLED 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic tenets of translation as a methodology for increasing students' sociocultural understanding, intercultural communication, pragmatics, and written English.
Name: LLED 222 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploration of the interrelationships between language structure, usage and social context and the interpretive differences that may result from their interaction.
Name: LLED 223 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploration of the emergence of new English varieties, as well as a critical examination of main reasons linked to the rise of English worldwide and its proposed role as a neutral global language.
Name: LLED 315A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 325A Credits: 4 Desciption: Taught in French. Strategies, theoretical foundations, and approaches related to teaching elementary French (Immersion, Core, Intensive) programs. Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 351 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 352 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 353 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 361 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 366 Credits: 3 Desciption: Curriculum and pedagogy related to the theories, concepts, and strategies relevant in secondary school classrooms.
Name: LLED 367 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 372 Credits: 3 Desciption: Language of instruction is French. Pass/Fail for B.Ed. students. Non-B.Ed. students are eligible for percentage grading or Credit/D/Fail grading.
Name: LLED 381 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 386 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 388 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 423 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 435A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 439 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 443 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 446 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 452 Credits: 3 Desciption: How teachers can support students to develop disciplinary literacies that will enable them to understand, analyze, interpret and critique ideas, genres, and language in discipline-specific texts in and beyond the intermediate and secondary school contexts.
Name: LLED 459 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 469 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and practices of teachers and teacher-librarians designing and teaching curriculum using inquiry-based pedagogy. LLED 469 is a core course for the Teacher Librarian Diploma.
Name: LLED 478A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 478B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 478C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 479 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of the cultural backgrounds of major ethnic groups. Instructional techniques for meeting the needs of immigrant students in the regular classroom with respect to culture and language.
Name: LLED 480A Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be given for only 6 credits of LLED 480 and 429.
Name: LLED 480E Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be given for only 6 credits of LLED 480 and 429.
Name: LLED 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 489A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 489B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 489C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 491A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 491B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 491C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 492A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 492B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 492C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 493A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 493B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 493C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 511A Credits: 3 Desciption: Language development in preschool and early school years: influence in education, heritage language, English as an Additional Language and multilingual contexts for development are explored across multiple theoretical approaches.
Name: LLED 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 552 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 557 Credits: 3 Desciption: Literacy learning, teaching, policy and research across the lifespan.
Name: LLED 558 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 565A Credits: 3 Desciption: Courses in various subject matter fields designed to bring teachers up to date in recent findings in each field.
Name: LLED 565E Credits: 3 Desciption: Courses in various subject matter fields designed to bring teachers up to date in recent findings in each field.
Name: LLED 565G Credits: 3 Desciption: Courses in various subject matter fields designed to bring teachers up to date in recent findings in each field.
Name: LLED 570 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 573A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 574 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 577 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 580A Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: LLED 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: LLED 580C Credits: 6 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: LLED 580D Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: LLED 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LLED 599 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 601 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 602 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LLED 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: LING 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of language as a universal and uniquely human cognitive system: What universals do all languages share and how do languages differ? An investigation of sound systems, word-building, grammatical principles, language change, dialect variation, language acquisition, neurolinguistics. Recommended but not required for an honours, major, or minor in linquistics or speech sciences.
Name: LING 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the linguistic map of the world, examining how languages are genetically classified and how different languages evolve. Principles underlying different writing systems and the decipherment of historical documents. Issues of languages in contact, minority language endangerment, language death and the role of English as a world language. Recommended but not required for an honours, major, or minor in linquistics or speech sciences.
Name: LING 140 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical consideration of a broad range of commonly held beliefs about language and its relation to the brain and cognition, learning, society, change and evolution. Note. This is an elective course that does not fulfill writing requirements in any faculty or the literature requirement in the Faculty of Arts.
Name: LING 170 Credits: 3 Desciption: Skills and strategies for second language acquisition, through the foundations of pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, and pragmatics, connected to the practical, social, and personal challenges of language learning.
Name: LING 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to phonetics and phonology; training in the identification and production of speech sounds; principles and methods for describing and writing the sound system of a language; phonological theory with reference to selected languages; the interface between phonology and morphology. Analytical practice and seminar discussion.
Name: LING 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to grammatical analysis; morphology, syntax, semantics; synchronic analysis and description with illustrations from various languages. Analytical practice and seminar discussion.
Name: LING 209 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to speech and hearing sciences, with emphasis on the clinical perspectives of audiology and speech pathology.
Name: LING 222 Credits: 3 Desciption: Audition and speech perception, phonological organization, word learning, syntax, and pragmatics.
Name: LING 270 Credits: 3 Desciption: Linguistic systems that learners of an additional language develop as they approximate towards the target language, and key questions about what this 'interlanguage' system reveals about how we learn languages.
Name: LING 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to syntactic analysis and theory, with emphasis on description and analysis of data from a wide variety of languages.
Name: LING 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to phonological analysis and theory, with a strong emphasis on description and analysis of data from a wide variety of languages.
Name: LING 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: The articulatory and acoustic properties of speech production and perception, including practice in phonetic transcription, instrumental recording, and the analysis of normal speech.
Name: LING 314 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physiological and/or acoustic phonetics. Focus on experimental methods and analysis techniques. Topics may include: source-filter theory; spectral and temporal acoustic analysis, inter-articulator timing and motor coordination.
Name: LING 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: The analysis and theory of linguistic meaning with emphasis on formal techniques for semantic analysis and their application to empirical phenomena in language, including pragmatics.
Name: LING 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research methods used in linguistics and speech science. Emphasis on scientific reasoning, critical thinking, experimental design, and the ethics and methods of linguistic data-collection.
Name: LING 345 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in pragmatics and information structure, including variations in their cross-linguistic expression and the corresponding influence of sentence form on context.
Name: LING 431 Credits: 3 Desciption: Elicitation, transcription, organization, and analysis of linguistic data from a native speaker of a language not commonly studied. Practical experience in the use of fieldwork equipment.
Name: LING 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: Elicitation, transcription, organization, and analysis of linguistic data from a native speaker of a language not commonly studied.  Practical experience in the use of fieldwork equipment.
Name: LING 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of the indigenous languages of the Americas. Study of the basis of genetic classification and areal similarities. The structure of representative languages will be presented and contrasted. The present status of American Indian languages will be considered. Note: this course is not necessarily offered every year.
Name: LING 445 Credits: 3 Desciption: The systematic study of language as a social phenomenon.
Name: LING 447G Credits: 3 Desciption: A capstone course for Linguistics and Speech Sciences majors, normally taken after three years of study.  Individual sections will differ substantially; see online Course List for detailed descriptions and prerequisites. May be repeated for credit when content is different.
Name: LING 447H Credits: 3 Desciption: A capstone course for Linguistics and Speech Sciences majors, normally taken after three years of study.  Individual sections will differ substantially; see online Course List for detailed descriptions and prerequisites. May be repeated for credit when content is different.
Name: LING 447L Credits: 3 Desciption: A capstone course for Linguistics and Speech Sciences majors, normally taken after three years of study.  Individual sections will differ substantially; see online Course List for detailed descriptions and prerequisites. May be repeated for credit when content is different.
Name: LING 447N Credits: 3 Desciption: A capstone course for Linguistics and Speech Sciences majors, normally taken after three years of study.  Individual sections will differ substantially; see online Course List for detailed descriptions and prerequisites. May be repeated for credit when content is different.
Name: LING 447O Credits: 3 Desciption: A capstone course for Linguistics and Speech Sciences majors, normally taken after three years of study.  Individual sections will differ substantially; see online Course List for detailed descriptions and prerequisites. May be repeated for credit when content is different.
Name: LING 447P Credits: 3 Desciption: A capstone course for Linguistics and Speech Sciences majors, normally taken after three years of study.  Individual sections will differ substantially; see online Course List for detailed descriptions and prerequisites. May be repeated for credit when content is different.
Name: LING 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervisor and topic chosen by mutual agreement between student and Linguistics faculty member. Department Advisor approval is required.
Name: LING 448C Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervisor and topic chosen by mutual agreement between student and Linguistics faculty member. Department Advisor approval is required.
Name: LING 448D Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervisor and topic chosen by mutual agreement between student and Linguistics faculty member. Department Advisor approval is required.
Name: LING 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LING 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of the phonological system in typical first language acquisition from the perspective of diverse linguistic topics. Phonetic transcription of child speech.
Name: LING 452 Credits: 3 Desciption: Central issues in the first language acquisition of syntax, including early lexical and semantic development, acquisition of morphology, and syntactic development (e.g., word order, questions).
Name: LING 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: Discussion and critical analysis of current issues in linguistic phonetics; instrumental analysis.
Name: LING 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: Discussion and critical analysis of current issues in phonological theory.
Name: LING 518 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Discussion and critical analysis of current issues in syntactic theory.
Name: LING 525 Credits: 3 Desciption: Discussion and critical analysis of current issues in semantic theory.
Name: LING 530A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 530B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 530F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 530G Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 530H Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 530I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 530J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 532 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 546A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 546B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 546C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LING 546D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 546E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 546F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 546H Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LING 549C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LING 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 509 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 514F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 514H Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 514J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 514K Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 533 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 539J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 554 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 555 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 556 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 559C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 559D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 559L Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 559S Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 561 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 569A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 569C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 574 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 579G Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 580 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 587 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 592 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 593D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 593E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 594 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 595 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 596 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 597 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 599A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LIBR 599B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: LIBE 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: The role, philosophy, and management of school library resource centres in elementary and secondary schools.
Name: LIBE 465 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBE 467 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LIBE 477B Credits: 3 Desciption: In-depth study of selected topics in library education.
Name: LIBE 580A Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: LIBE 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: LIBE 580C Credits: 6 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: LIBE 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: LIBE 598A Credits: 3 Desciption: For students in master's, doctoral, and diploma programs.
Name: LIBE 599C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LIBE 599D Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: LFS 100 Credits: 1 Desciption: Orientation to the programs, learning environment and core values of the Faculty of Land and Food Systems; career programs; survey of professional opportunities and requirements.
Name: LFS 150 Credits: 3 Desciption: Communicating concepts of food systems and links to human and environmental health through writing, elements of argumentation, evaluating evidence, and searching for and citing references to back up claims; small-class experience. Enrolment limited to LFS students with first year status and a Language Proficiency Index (LPI) of 4 or equivalent.
Name: LFS 250 Credits: 6 Desciption: Introduction to managed systems and concepts of sustainability; economic, ecological and social components; managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities; urban and rural systems; the land, food, nutrition and human health continuum.
Name: LFS 252 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to tools needed for data analysis of the economic, ecological, health, and scientific components of land and food systems.
Name: LFS 302A Credits: 3 Desciption: Field studies carried out abroad under staff direction. Participating students are assessed a fee.
Name: LFS 302B Credits: 6 Desciption: Field studies carried out abroad under staff direction. Participating students are assessed a fee.
Name: LFS 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to tools and skills required to assess the economic, ecological, social, and technological components of managed landscapes, agrifood systems and communities comprising the land, food, nutrition and health continuum.
Name: LFS 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in relevant private and/or public sector settings.  Work terms are normally four months long.  Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in Land and Food Systems. Pass/Fail.
Name: LFS 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in relevant private and/or public sector settings.  Work terms are normally four months long.  Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in Land and Food Systems. Pass/Fail.
Name: LFS 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Adopts a journalistic framework to communicate powerful stories and present academic content in new ways through the use of audio technology.
Name: LFS 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Problem-based analysis of complex case studies aimed at increasing the sustainability of the UBC Vancouver campus food system. The main activities are integrated into the ongoing UBC Food System Project. Cases are specifically designed to require development of integrated disciplinary and inter-disciplinary analysis.
Name: LFS 496A Credits: 3 Desciption: Technical work experience appropriate to students' career goals. Enrolment subject to competition and availability of work placements.
Name: LFS 496B Credits: 6 Desciption: Technical work experience appropriate to students' career goals. Enrolment subject to competition and availability of work placements.
Name: LFS 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in relevant private and/or public sector settings.  Work terms are normally four months long.  Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in Land and Food Systems. Pass/Fail.
Name: LFS 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in relevant private and/or public sector settings.  Work terms are normally four months long.  Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in Land and Food Systems. Pass/Fail.
Name: LFS 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LFS 530A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LFS 530B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LFS 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: LFS 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 201 Credits: 6 Desciption: Principles of Canadian constitutional law, including Canadian federalism, the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and the unique constitutional status and rights of Aboriginal Peoples in Canada.
Name: LAW 211 Credits: 5 Desciption: Historical development; formation and enforceability of contracts; parties; contractual terms; changes of circumstances; remedies for breach.
Name: LAW 221 Credits: 5 Desciption: Bases of criminal responsibility; principles and objectives of the criminal law and procedure; pre-trial procedure.
Name: LAW 231 Credits: 5 Desciption: The legal concept of ownership and its changing nature and application, including equitable principles, the acquisition and transfer of interests, the regulation of use, Aboriginal title, and statute-based systems for registering interests in land.
Name: LAW 241 Credits: 5 Desciption: A study of the bases of civil liability for intentionally and accidentally caused harms.
Name: LAW 251 Credits: 2 Desciption: An overview of the constitutional and statutory law governing the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government in Canada, including an introduction to statutory construction and analysis and the administration of law in Canada.
Name: LAW 261 Credits: 2 Desciption: Introduction to principles of public and private international law and research methods for international legal materials.
Name: LAW 281 Credits: 2 Desciption: Introduction to legal research and writing skills and the use of legal databases.
Name: LAW 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the basic principles of legal theory and critical perspectives on law. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 290 or LAW 300.
Name: LAW 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Historical and comparative study of the evolution of legal systems from custom and proto law emphasizing influences and sharing ideas among traditions of the Ancient Near East, Athens, Roman Empire, Western Europe and China. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories of the relationship between the legal system, social relations and the state. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of feminist approaches to law, with reference to selected substantive areas of the law.
Name: LAW 310D Credits: 3 Desciption: Economic analysis used to explore, describe, evaluate and offer prescriptive suggestions for legal decision-making. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 312D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 313D Credits: 3 Desciption: The relationship between law, society and historical change, normally emphasizing 19th and 20th century issues. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 316 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history, sources and evidence of international law and its relation to municipal law; international personality; state jurisdiction; and treaties. Students who have taken POLI 465 cannot take this course.
Name: LAW 324D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of the private legal problems arising in cases in which the relevant facts cut across provincial or national boundaries. Recommended to be taken in third year.
Name: LAW 334 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the comparative study of legal systems of East and South-East Asia, including those of China and Japan.
Name: LAW 336 Credits: 3 Desciption: Overview of the laws and legal system in the People's Republic of China with some introduction to Taiwan law. Legal interpretation of implications for Canada-China relations.
Name: LAW 338D Credits: 3 Desciption: Constitutional foundation and protection of human rights under Japanese law.
Name: LAW 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic theory of comparative law and the differences between the civil law tradition and the common law tradition.
Name: LAW 342A Credits: 1 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 342C Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 342D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 343C Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 343D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 344D Credits: 3 Desciption: Emerging interdisciplinary scholarship on regulation, governance, and institutional design.  Examination of research and experience around both formal and legal regulatory strategies, and other informal, decentred, or non-state-based methods of ordering individual and organizational behaviour.
Name: LAW 348D Credits: 3 Desciption: Comparison of the constitutional history, government structure and powers, and protection of individual rights between the United States and Canada.
Name: LAW 349D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of the history and present status of the legal relationships between Canada's Aboriginal peoples and the state. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 200 or LAW 352.
Name: LAW 353D Credits: 3 Desciption: Rights of Aboriginal people stemming from their aboriginal status and from treaties. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 356 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal issues affecting land use and economic activity involving First Nations' resources. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 358B Credits: 2 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 358D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 359 Credits: 4 Desciption: The law relating to family relationships, including the law of marriage, divorce, maintenance, custody, matrimonial property, and related matters. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 240 or LAW 359.
Name: LAW 362D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 367 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal issues relating to human reproduction. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 368D Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal issues relating to sexual activity, orientation and identification. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 372 Credits: 4 Desciption: The system of legal control exercised through non-judicial agencies and the relationship of the courts to the administrative process. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 210, LAW 372, or LAW 509.
Name: LAW 374 Credits: 3 Desciption: The municipality as a legal entity; its creation, operation and powers; by-laws and their validity; contractual liability; judicial review; business regulation; expropriation and land use control.
Name: LAW 377 Credits: 3 Desciption: Admission of immigrants into Canada; refugee protection; practice and procedure before immigration tribunals and the courts.
Name: LAW 378C Credits: 3 Desciption: International and Canadian refugee law; the Refugee Convention and its implementation in Canada; the practice of refugee law in Canadian courts and tribunals. Course content does not duplicate Law 377.
Name: LAW 379B Credits: 4 Desciption: Students work for an approved organization, supervised by a Faculty-approved mentor and a faculty member. Consult the Faculty for full eligibility criteria.
Name: LAW 379C Credits: 8 Desciption: Students work for an approved organization, supervised by a Faculty-approved mentor and a faculty member. Consult the Faculty for full eligibility criteria.
Name: LAW 379D Credits: 11 Desciption: Students work for an approved organization, supervised by a Faculty-approved mentor and a faculty member. Consult the Faculty for full eligibility criteria.
Name: LAW 380A Credits: 2 Desciption: Structured reflective exercises on the LAW 379 Externship experience.
Name: LAW 380B Credits: 3 Desciption: Structured reflective exercises on the LAW 379 Externship experience.
Name: LAW 380C Credits: 4 Desciption: Structured reflective exercises on the LAW 379 Externship experience.
Name: LAW 381 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal issues relating to people with disabilities. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 386D Credits: 3 Desciption: The linkages, intersections, and tensions between the legal regulation of the environment and competing social and economic priorities.
Name: LAW 387 Credits: 4 Desciption: A foundation course dealing with the regulatory and policy framework for the protection of the environment in Canada, such as pollution control and biodiversity conservation.
Name: LAW 390 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal research and writing for environmental agency or NGO under supervision of faculty member and lawyer. Not offered every year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 392 Credits: 3 Desciption: A foundation course dealing with legal problems common to the management of natural resources such as fisheries, mines and minerals, petroleum, forests, and water resources.
Name: LAW 395 Credits: 3 Desciption: Acquisition of timber interests; development, financing and organization of timber companies; regulation of exploitation industry interests; management taxation. Not offered each year; consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics relating to procedural law and practice in criminal matters. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 260 or LAW 400.
Name: LAW 401D Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected legal policy issues relating to punishment for crime. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 402D Credits: 3 Desciption: Criminal law relating to sexual offences, including non-consent, evidentiary and procedural rules, and sentencing.  History of sexual offence laws and law reform movements.
Name: LAW 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Available in online distance education format only.  Elements of sentencing for murder, manslaughter and infanticide; defences to homicide; parties to homicide; and corporate homicide.
Name: LAW 406C Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 407 Credits: 4 Desciption: A survey of the law and practice of income and capital gains taxes. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 220, LAW 407, or LAW 506.
Name: LAW 408 Credits: 3 Desciption: The taxation of corporations, the taxation of shareholders, and the tax implications of the reorganization of corporations. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 408 or LAW 562.
Name: LAW 409 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of statutory and judicial rules governing the taxation of income earned through partnerships and trusts. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 409 or LAW 563.
Name: LAW 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: The tax aspects of international transactions. Not offered each year; consult Faculty. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 410 or LAW 565.
Name: LAW 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.  Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 412 or LAW 564.
Name: LAW 413D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 413 or LAW 567.
Name: LAW 416 Credits: 3 Desciption: Union-management relations; the collective bargaining process; the collective agreement, arbitration and conciliation procedure. The relationship between the union and its membership. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 415 or LAW 416.
Name: LAW 419C Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal aspects of employment relationships other that those arising by collective bargaining. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 419D Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal aspects of employment relationships other that those arising by collective bargaining. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 421D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 422 Credits: 3 Desciption: Copyright, patents, trade marks, industrial design, the protection of computer software, and torts such as passing-off and breach of confidence.
Name: LAW 423C Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 423D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 424 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected legal issues relating to the communications industries and their regulation. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 425D Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal issues arising from the development of the Internet and cyberspace.
Name: LAW 430 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research using electronic databases, information systems, and non-legal databases relevant to the resolution of legal issues.
Name: LAW 434 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal issues relating to tort claims in negligence and related causes of action against health care providers, with a primary focus on physicians and hospital authorities.
Name: LAW 435C Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 435D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: The law of sale of goods, bills of exchange, promissory notes, and cheques.
Name: LAW 438 Credits: 3 Desciption: The law governing the creation, perfection and enforcement of security interests in personal property.
Name: LAW 439 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal issues relating to the construction process. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: The general legal principles of life, automobile, fire and other types of insurance; the regulation of the insurance industry.
Name: LAW 442 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal issues over the lifecycle of condominium/strata property from creation and development, through operating life, to termination.
Name: LAW 443 Credits: 3 Desciption: Remedies of an unsecured creditor; fraudulent conveyances and preferences; builders' liens; bankruptcy.
Name: LAW 444 Credits: 3 Desciption: The law relating to insolvency, receivership and bankruptcy. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 447B Credits: 2 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 448 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal issues relating to the sports industry and those who participate in it. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 449 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected legal issues relating to the media and entertainment industries and their regulation. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: History and nature of trusts; express, resulting, implied and constructive trusts; charitable and purpose trusts; administration of trusts; breach of trust. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 250 or LAW 451.
Name: LAW 452 Credits: 3 Desciption: The law of wills and intestate succession, variation of wills, principles of probate and administration of estates.
Name: LAW 453 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history and development of equitable remedies such as specific performance, injunctions, declarations, relief against forfeiture, and tracing.
Name: LAW 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: The law relating to the sale and purchase of land, real estate agency, and mortgages.
Name: LAW 457 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of the legal aspects of the development of real estate projects such as shopping centres, sports centres and condominiums. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 459 Credits: 4 Desciption: A conceptual overview of business organizations in Canada, including partnerships and corporations, and the rights and duties of shareholders and directors. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 230, LAW 459, or LAW 508.
Name: LAW 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal aspects of selected transactions relating to public corporations and corporate governance. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: The corporation, taxation, accounting, insurance and estate planning aspects of the close corporation. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 463 Credits: 3 Desciption: The law relating to the distribution of securities. Continuous and timely disclosure requirements and civil liability.
Name: LAW 464 Credits: 3 Desciption: The law and policy relating to the regulation of competition in Canada and other jurisdictions. Not offered each year, consult Faculty. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 414 or LAW 464.
Name: LAW 465 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interdisciplinary elements of corporate finance and law, in both theory and practice.
Name: LAW 466 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integration of theoretical and practical elements of business law. For students opting for the Business Law Concentration.
Name: LAW 467C Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 467D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 468 Credits: 3 Desciption: The ethical dimensions of legal practice in Canada, including legislation, regulations, rules of professional conduct and cases, and the roles of lawyers, the legal profession and the legal system including their role in securing access to justice.
Name: LAW 469 Credits: 3 Desciption: Problems in the conduct of civil litigation including: ethical considerations; substantive problems such as notice, pleading, and discovery; and selected procedural problems. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 270 or LAW 469.
Name: LAW 470 Credits: 6 Desciption: Clinical program giving hands-on experience in reviewing claims of innocence post-conviction. Not offered every year; consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 471D Credits: 3 Desciption: Substantive legal principles and rules of evidence that can cause or help to prevent wrongful convictions or other miscarriages of justice. Roles of the participants in the criminal justice system. Not offered each year; consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 472 Credits: 3 Desciption: Skills-training in all aspects of civil and criminal trial advocacy.
Name: LAW 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Issues relating to advocacy before appellate courts; techniques of appellate advocacy. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 474 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of advocacy in civil and criminal cases including interviewing, pre-trial preparation, tactical analysis, development of facts, direct and cross examination and various ethical considerations.
Name: LAW 476 Credits: 4 Desciption: The admissibility and use of evidence in litigation. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 280, LAW 476, or LAW 507.
Name: LAW 477 Credits: 3 Desciption: Negotiation and bargaining; formulation of general principles governing the negotiation process; negotiation in legal practice; alternative means of dispute resolution.
Name: LAW 478 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical premises underlying the dispute-resolving process; arbitration, other non-judicial means of resolving legal disputes, and their relationship to litigation. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 481A Credits: 1 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 481D Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
Name: LAW 488 Credits: 11 Desciption: Designed to explore the legal system in relation to disadvantaged members of society. Under supervision, students will act for clients in a range of legal matters and can expect to appear before courts and tribunals. Students will also work with community-based organisations. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 490 or LAW 491. Pass/Fail.
Name: LAW 489 Credits: 4 Desciption: The graded component of LAW 488.
Name: LAW 490 Credits: 6 Desciption: Dealing with criminal files under the supervision of experienced lawyers. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 488, LAW 490, or LAW 491. Pass/Fail.
Name: LAW 491 Credits: 6 Desciption: Restricted to a limited number of upper year students who (a) in their first or second year have participated in the provision of legal services to the public through the Law Students Legal Advice Program, and (b) continue that participation in their second or third year. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 488, LAW 490, or LAW 491.
Name: LAW 500 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 503E Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 504 Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 505 Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 506 Credits: 4 Desciption: Law and practice of income and capital gains taxes. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 506, LAW 220 or LAW 407.
Name: LAW 507 Credits: 4 Desciption: The admissibility and use of evidence in litigation. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 507, LAW 280 or LAW 476.
Name: LAW 508D Credits: 4 Desciption: A conceptual overview of business organizations in Canada, including partnerships and corporations, and the rights and duties of shareholders and directors. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 508, LAW 230 or LAW 459.
Name: LAW 509 Credits: 4 Desciption: The system of legal control exercised through non-judicial agencies and the relationship of the courts to the administrative process.  Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 509, LAW 210 or LAW 372.
Name: LAW 511D Credits: 4 Desciption: Analysis of topics such as jurisdiction, immunity from prosecution, mutual assistance in penal matters, recognition and enforcement of foreign penal laws, and international police co-operation; examination of selected offences such as war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide, terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, and torture.
Name: LAW 524D Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 525 Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 530 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 549 Credits: 20 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 552C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 553C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 554C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 555C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 556B Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 556C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 557C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 557D Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: Completion of an upper-level 300- or 400-level J.D. seminar or workshop course 4 credit minimum, completion of a substantial research paper consisting of an advanced analysis relating to the subject matter of the particular seminar or workshop.
Name: LAW 561 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: LAW 562 Credits: 4 Desciption: Taxation of corporations, taxation of shareholders, and the tax implications of the reorganization of corporations. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 408 or LAW 562.
Name: LAW 563 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of statutory and judicial rules governing the taxation of income earned through partnerships and trusts. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 409 or LAW 563.
Name: LAW 564 Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty.  Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 412 or LAW 564.
Name: LAW 565 Credits: 4 Desciption: The tax aspects of international transactions. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 410 or LAW 565.
Name: LAW 566 Credits: 3 Desciption: The policies underlying the creation and implementation of tax laws. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 411 or LAW 566
Name: LAW 567 Credits: 3 Desciption: Not offered each year, consult Faculty. Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 413 or LAW 567.
Name: LAW 568A Credits: 1 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 413 or LAW 568.
Name: LAW 568B Credits: 2 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 413 or LAW 568.
Name: LAW 568C Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 413 or LAW 568.
Name: LAW 569C Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of LAW 414 or LAW 569.
Name: LAW 610C Credits: 3 Desciption: Including law and feminism, Marxism, post-modernism, social theory, law and the state; legal liberalism and its critics, and other jurisprudential discourses.
Name: LAW 611C Credits: 3 Desciption: Applicability of legal concepts in different cultures and societies, and the consequences for the form and structure of law.
Name: LAW 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: LATN 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Classical Latin for students with no previous knowledge of Latin, Part I.
Name: LATN 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Classical Latin for students with no previous knowledge of Latin, Part II.
Name: LATN 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Completion of the grammatical foundations of classical Latin, Part I.
Name: LATN 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: Completion of the grammatical foundations of classical Latin, Part II, and an introduction to the reading of unadapted passages of Latin literature.
Name: LATN 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in Latin Prose.
Name: LATN 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in Latin Verse.
Name: LATN 401C Credits: 3 Desciption: Studies in history, oratory and/or philosophy. May be repeated for up to 12 credits. It is recommended that the corequisite course be completed prior to LATN 401.
Name: LATN 402B Credits: 3 Desciption: Studies in narrative verse, comedy, satire, elegiac and lyric poetry. May be repeated for up to 12 credits. It is recommended that the corequisite course be completed prior to LATN 402.
Name: LATN 501C Credits: 3 Desciption: History, oratory and/or philosophy.  Credit will not be given for both LATN 401 and LATN 501.
Name: LATN 502B Credits: 3 Desciption: Narrative verse, comedy, satire, elegiac and lyric poetry.  Credit will not be given for both LATN 402 and LATN 502.
Name: LATN 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: LATN 550A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LATN 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: LAST 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of the culture and society of Latin America from ancient to contemporary times and from Argentina to Mexico.
Name: LAST 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: The culture of everyday life, both rural and urban: issues of identity, popular memory, resistance, negotiation, as expressed through ritual, crafts, the body, social movements, films, music, and literature.
Name: LASO 204 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ideas, concepts, and frameworks for thinking about the nature of law and legal processes in both Canadian and global contexts.
Name: LARC 316 Credits: 3 Desciption: Culture and identification of landscape materials with emphasis on woody plants. Elementary principles of landscape composition.  Suitable for students of other faculties and departments interested in landscape materials and their uses, but priority given to  Agroecology and Landscape Architecture students.
Name: LARC 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: Functional, ecological, and behavioural theory and practice applied to planting design at different scales.
Name: LARC 431 Credits: 3 Desciption: Terrain design, drainage, and stormwater management. Open only to B. End. students. Credit will be granted for only one of LARC 431 or LARC 531.
Name: LARC 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Site analysis and planning of relatively complex sites, emphasizing storm water management design. Open only to B.En.D. students. Credit will be granted for only one of LARC 440, LARC 540 or DES 231.
Name: LARC 444 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and methods of long-range green space planning for urban areas.
Name: LARC 501 Credits: 9 Desciption: Landscape design methods and processes. Restricted to M.L.A. students.
Name: LARC 502 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: LARC 503 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: LARC 504 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: LARC 505 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: LARC 511 Credits: 2 Desciption: Commences in August the two weeks prior to Labour Day. Enrolment mandatory for all incoming students. A non-refundable fee will be charged to cover expenses. Credit will be granted for only one of LARC 511 or ARCH 502.
Name: LARC 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Functional, ecological, and behavioural theory and practice applied to planting design at different scales.
Name: LARC 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: History, principles, and theory of landscape architecture in Europe, America and Asia. Influence of cultural attitudes and societal change upon natural environments, parks, gardens, and town planning.
Name: LARC 523 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical positions in landscape architecture and their relation to designed landscapes. Seats are reserved for students who meet one of the following sets of restrictions: 1) M.Arch. students; 2) M.A.S.A. or M.A.S.L.A. students; and 3) M.L.A. students, by instructor's permissions only.
Name: LARC 525 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of various quantitative, qualitative and design research methods in landscape architecture using case studies, lectures and seminars.
Name: LARC 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: Terrain design, drainage and stormwater management. Credit will be granted for only one of LARC 531 or LARC 431.
Name: LARC 532 Credits: 3 Desciption: Hard landscape materials.
Name: LARC 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: Site analysis and planning of relatively complex sites, emphasizing stormwater management design. Credit will be granted for only one of LARC 540, LARC 440 or DES 231.
Name: LARC 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LARC 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and planning of landscapes to communicate sustainability and to inform public awareness and design by exploring the relationship between aesthetics and sustainability.
Name: LARC 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ethical, legal and business context of professional practice, including contracts, project management.
Name: LARC 553 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and methods of long-range green space planning for urban areas. Credit will be granted for only one of LARC 444 or LARC 553.
Name: LARC 570A Credits: 3 Desciption: A mechanism for students to earn academic credit for relevant work experience outside the university. Open only to M.L.A. students.
Name: LARC 570C Credits: 6 Desciption: A mechanism for students to earn academic credit for relevant work experience outside the university. Open only to M.L.A. students.
Name: LARC 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LARC 581B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LARC 582E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LARC 595 Credits: 3 Desciption: Preparation of a graduation design project proposal including literature review.
Name: LARC 598 Credits: 9 Desciption: Design component, completion, and defense of the graduation design project. Open only to M.L.A. candidates.
Name: LARC 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: Open only to M.A.S.L.A. candidates.
Name: LAIS 605 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAIS 607 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAIS 608 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAIS 609 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAIS 609B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAIS 609C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: LAIS 620 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LAIS 621 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: LAIS 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: KORN 102 Credits: 6 Desciption: An introduction to the grammar and syntax of modern spoken and written Korean. As of 2011W, credit will be granted for only one of KORN 100/101 or KORN 102.
Name: KORN 200 Credits: 6 Desciption: Reading and writing of modern colloquial Korean at an intermediate level. As of 2011W, credit will be granted for only one of KORN 201/202 or KORN 200.
Name: KORN 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in intermediate-level Korean on aspects of Korean culture, customs, and contemporary life, along with structured conversations based on those readings. As of 2011W, credit will be granted for only one of KORN 301/302 or KORN 300.
Name: KORN 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of KORN 301. As of 2011W, credit will be granted for only one of KORN 301/302 or KORN 300.
Name: KORN 410A Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading and translating twentieth-century Korean short fiction.
Name: KORN 410B Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading and translating twentieth-century Korean short fiction.
Name: KORN 440A Credits: 3 Desciption: Primarily for students in Asian Studies and Linguistics.
Name: KORN 440B Credits: 3 Desciption: Primarily for students in Asian Studies and Linguistics.
Name: KIN 101 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the School of Kinesiology and the Co-operative Education Program.  Pass/Fail.
Name: KIN 103 Credits: 3 Desciption: Role of physical activity in the maintenance of a healthy life. Application of basic physical fitness and exercise methods, exercise techniques and fitness appraisal.
Name: KIN 115A Credits: 3 Desciption: Specific topics to be announced each year. KIN 115 and 215 can be taken in any order.
Name: KIN 115B Credits: 3 Desciption: Specific topics to be announced each year. KIN 115 and 215 can be taken in any order.
Name: KIN 151 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of elementary principles of physics and math to a quantitative analysis of movement.  Analysis will also focus on the development of forces within muscles and their effect on initiating and controlling human movement.
Name: KIN 161 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the political, economic and social basis of leisure and sport; concepts, theories and problems.
Name: KIN 190 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structure and function of the neuromuscular and skeletal systems of the human body. Special emphasis on movement analysis and the physiological effects of exercise. Please consult the School of Kinesiology Credit Exclusion Lists: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,205,352,1477.
Name: KIN 191 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structure and function of the digestive, endocrine, urinary, circulatory and respiratory systems. Special emphasis on effects of exercise. Please consult the School of Kinesiology Credit Exclusion Lists: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,205,253,1477.
Name: KIN 201 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the School of Kinesiology and the Co-operative Education Program.  Pass/Fail.
Name: KIN 215A Credits: 3 Desciption: Specific topics to be announced each year. KIN 115 and 215 can be taken in any order.
Name: KIN 215B Credits: 3 Desciption: Specific topics to be announced each year. KIN 115 and 215 can be taken in any order.
Name: KIN 230 Credits: 3 Desciption: Processes underlying human movement and learning motor skills and factors influencing acquisition, performance, and movement control.
Name: KIN 231 Credits: 3 Desciption: Psychological theories and research related to sport and exercise behaviour. Please consult the School of Kinesiology Credit Exclusion Lists: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,205,352,1477
Name: KIN 261 Credits: 3 Desciption: Health policy and the social context in relation to active health.
Name: KIN 275 Credits: 3 Desciption: Acute and chronic effects of exercise on body systems; basic concepts of cardiovascular, respiratory and muscular responses to physical activity.
Name: KIN 284 Credits: 3 Desciption: A lifespan approach to motor development that examines underlying factors affecting physical growth, physical activity behaviour, and human motor performance, while highlighting contemporary issues and trends in society.
Name: KIN 301 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the School of Kinesiology and the Co-operative Education Program.  Pass/Fail.
Name: KIN 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Conditioning methods, exercise techniques and appraisal methods for fitness in high performance physical activity and sport.
Name: KIN 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Acquisition, performance, and control of skilled movements. Processes and underlying mechanisms involved in learning and performing motor skills. Credit will be granted for only one of KIN 330 or KIN 468.
Name: KIN 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mechanics of muscular contraction and how the mechanical properties of the muscle, ligaments, tendons, and bone work synergistically.
Name: KIN 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: Relationships that sport and leisure have with peace, conflict, and social inequality in Canada and internationally.
Name: KIN 361 Credits: 3 Desciption: Recognition, prevention, and first aid treatment of common sports injuries. Laboratory sessions emphasize principles and techniques of basic protective taping and strapping.
Name: KIN 362 Credits: 3 Desciption: For persons with disabilities; a developmental, lifelong approach to programming. Includes field work.
Name: KIN 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods of athletic conditioning, planning the program, psychology of training and coaching, athletic evaluation.
Name: KIN 366 Credits: 3 Desciption: The design and implementation of movement experiences for children in early childhood years.
Name: KIN 367 Credits: 3 Desciption: Policy issues relating to leisure opportunities for persons with disabilities.
Name: KIN 369 Credits: 3 Desciption: Instructional design and technologies applied to sport and physical activity programs.
Name: KIN 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic concepts and principles of descriptive and inferential statistics, and distribution-free statistical techniques. Please consult the School of Kinesiology Credit Exclusion Lists: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,205,253,1477.
Name: KIN 373 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical evaluation of research studies and methods with emphasis on the physical activity context.
Name: KIN 375 Credits: 3 Desciption: Transport of oxygen during exercise in humans.  Regulation and integration of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems during exercise.
Name: KIN 381 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected aspects of leisure and sport examined in relation to modern social structures and cultures. Credit will be granted for only one of KIN 281 or KIN 381.
Name: KIN 382 Credits: 3 Desciption: An analysis of the experience of sports activities.
Name: KIN 383 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of the Modern Olympic Games as an event with important political, economic, environmental, and cultural ramifications.
Name: KIN 389 Credits: 3 Desciption: The neurophysiological and functional neuroanatomical processes involved in the sensory and motor control of movement, posture and balance in the human. Peripheral and central sensorimotor structures, and neurological diseases that effect human movement and balance control will be discussed.
Name: KIN 390 Credits: 3 Desciption: The musculoskeletal structures and neural innervations involved in the control of human movement. Attention will be given to the practical application of human anatomy as it pertains to clinical, athletic, or everyday situations.
Name: KIN 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Processes, techniques and considerations in the planning, implementation and evaluation of physical education, sport and exercise programs in both public and private agencies.
Name: KIN 401 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the School of Kinesiology and the Co-operative Education Program.  Pass/Fail.
Name: KIN 402 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the School of Kinesiology and the Co-operative Education Program.  Pass/Fail.
Name: KIN 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of developmentally appropriate conceptual and tactical approaches to team game instruction.
Name: KIN 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: The sociology of aging and the body. Focus on how older adults perceive and experience health and illness.
Name: KIN 454B Credits: 3 Desciption: Students have the opportunity to develop their leadership, instruction, and professional skills in a variety of supervised fieldwork settings. Students should select the section of the course (A, B) most relevant to their program of study and career goals.
Name: KIN 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analytical observations and supervised professional practice in physical activity settings.
Name: KIN 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: Training and safety strategies for the prevention of injuries to the musculoskeletal system and sense organs.
Name: KIN 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cellular and molecular mechanisms of muscle adaptability to physical activity: muscle development, signaling cascades of hypertrophy and atrophy, and satellite cell contribution to muscle regeneration/repair; etiology of intramuscular fatigue.
Name: KIN 464 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current perspectives on health promotion and health education; design and implementation of health promotion strategies in a variety of arenas, particularly health promotion/education strategies aimed at encouraging physical activity.
Name: KIN 465 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of multiculturalism and interculturalism in the delivery of community-based physical activities for diverse populations; connections between physical activity and health in different cultural contexts.  Community service learning and participation in culturally unfamiliar physical activities are core elements.
Name: KIN 471 Credits: 3 Desciption: Training and safety strategies for the prevention of injuries or disorders of internal organs and central nervous system. Environmental and nutritional factors in conditioning and pre-event preparation.
Name: KIN 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Neuroanatomy of human motion in healthy and clinical populations.
Name: KIN 475 Credits: 3 Desciption: Operation of the lungs, chest wall, and ventilatory control mechanisms during dynamic whole-body exercise.
Name: KIN 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar on the application of social science theories and methods to sport marketing and communication.
Name: KIN 489A Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics and research in specific areas.
Name: KIN 489B Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics and research in specific areas.
Name: KIN 489C Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics and research in specific areas.
Name: KIN 489D Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics and research in specific areas.
Name: KIN 489G Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics and research in specific areas.
Name: KIN 489M Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics and research in specific areas.
Name: KIN 489S Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics and research in specific areas.
Name: KIN 489X Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics and research in specific areas.
Name: KIN 489Z Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics and research in specific areas.
Name: KIN 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Provides opportunities to perform research pertaining to a chosen area of kinesiology.
Name: KIN 500A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: KIN 500C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: KIN 500D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: KIN 500F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: KIN 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: Contemporary theory, research and application with regard to leadership and group processes in the context of sport and exercise.
Name: KIN 530A Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics selected by the student, with the approval of the Graduate Advisor, can be studied under the supervision of a member of the faculty.
Name: KIN 530B Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics selected by the student, with the approval of the Graduate Advisor, can be studied under the supervision of a member of the faculty.
Name: KIN 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic energy systems of the human body; primarily concentrating on the bioenergetics of the skeletal muscle cell, recovery from muscular work, substrate utilization, muscle fiber types, strength, endurance and the physiological assessment of maximal performance.
Name: KIN 564 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected psycho-social considerations in sport: initial and continuing involvement in the competitive sport environment.
Name: KIN 567 Credits: 3 Desciption: Processes underlying the ability to learn and perform motor skills.
Name: KIN 568 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reports and discussions of research literature concerning theories and findings in human sensorimotor control. Emphasis is given to understanding the basic mechanisms underlying sensorimotor control, utilizing frameworks drawn from motor behaviour, cognitive neuroscience, and neurophysiology.
Name: KIN 570 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research methods applied to the study of sport and physical activity, the nature of scientific inquiry, the design of experiments, the survey as a research medium, the historical and philosophical methods of inquiry, the writing of the research report.
Name: KIN 571 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical, methodological, and ethical debates about and approaches to qualitative methods; issues in and approaches to qualitative inquiry.
Name: KIN 572 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interpretation and evaluation of research methods and scientific findings related to coaching sciences.
Name: KIN 580 Credits: 3 Desciption: Personal, social, and cultural significance of the body in sport, exercise, and physical culture.
Name: KIN 585 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of findings from sport profile and gap analysis to the planning and design of high performance training and coaching programs. Focuses on quadrennial, annual, meso and microcycle planning to integrate key factors that impact athlete performance and progression along the athlete development pathway.
Name: KIN 586 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of athlete performance and appropriate design and application of coaching intervention and skill acquisition for athlete and coach development.
Name: KIN 595 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: KIN 598 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: KIN 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: KIN 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: JRNL 100A Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of new media technologies, their applications, and their cultural, political, and social impacts.
Name: JRNL 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Feminist postcolonial critique of journalism, and an examination of underlying democratic ideals in a rapidly evolving media landscape.
Name: JRNL 503B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 515C Credits: 9 Desciption: Grammar and syntax of media across platforms; skills and knowledge-based model of learning with an emphasis on digital literacy.
Name: JRNL 520A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 520D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 520H Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 520I Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 520J Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 520K Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 520M Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 520P Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 520V Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 533 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 534 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 539B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 539C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 548 Credits: 6 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: JRNL 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: JRNL 555A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: JAPN 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to modern spoken and written Japanese with emphasis on both form (grammar and syntax) and functions (Non-intensive). Not available for credit to students with JAPN 11 and/or JAPN 12. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 100 or JAPN 160.
Name: JAPN 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of JAPN 100 (Non-intensive). Not available for credit to students with JAPN 12. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 101 or JAPN 160.
Name: JAPN 160 Credits: 6 Desciption: An introduction to modern spoken and written Japanese with emphasis on both form (grammar and syntax) and functions. Offered in Term 1. Not available for credit to students with JAPN 12. Students are recommended to complete JAPN 160 and 260 in the same year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 160 or JAPN 150 or both JAPN 100, JAPN 101.
Name: JAPN 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of JAPN 101 (Non-intensive). Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 200 or JAPN 102 or JAPN 260.
Name: JAPN 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of JAPN 200 (Non-intensive). Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 201 or JAPN 103 or JAPN 260.
Name: JAPN 260 Credits: 6 Desciption: Continuation of JAPN 160. Offered in Term 2. Students are recommended to complete JAPN 160 and 260 in the same year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 260 or JAPN 151 or both JAPN 102, JAPN 103 or both JAPN 200, JAPN 201.
Name: JAPN 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integrated coverage of topics on culture and cross-cultural communication designed to develop competencies in speaking, listening, reading, and writing. It is strongly recommended that JAPN 320 and JAPN 321 be taken in the same year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 320 or JAPN 210 or JAPN 360.
Name: JAPN 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of JAPN 320. It is strongly recommended that JAPN 320 and JAPN 321 be taken in the same year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 321 or JAPN 211 or JAPN 360.
Name: JAPN 322 Credits: 3 Desciption: It is strongly recommended that students plan to complete both JAPN 322 and JAPN 323 within one year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 322 or JAPN 212 or JAPN 361.
Name: JAPN 323 Credits: 3 Desciption: A continuation of JAPN 322. It is strongly recommended that students plan to complete both JAPN 322 and JAPN 323 within one year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 322 and JAPN 212 or JAPN 361.
Name: JAPN 360 Credits: 6 Desciption: Integrated coverage of topics on culture and  cross-cultural communication designed to develop competencies in speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Offered in Term 1. It is strongly recommended that students plan to complete both JAPN 360 and JAPN 361 within one year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 322 or JAPN 212 or both JAPN 210, JAPN 211 or both JAPN 320, JAPN 321.
Name: JAPN 361 Credits: 6 Desciption: Continuation of JAPN 360. It is strongly recommended that students plan to complete both JAPN 360 and JAPN 361 within one year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 361 or JAPN 251 or both JAPN 212, JAPN 213 or both JAPN 322, JAPN 323.
Name: JAPN 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected texts covering various aspects of Japanese cultural history and contemporary Japanese culture/society; emphasis on grammatical analysis and development of advanced competencies for reading and writing. It is strongly recommended that students plan to complete both JAPN 400 and JAPN 401 within one year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 400 or JAPN 300.
Name: JAPN 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of JAPN 301. It is strongly recommended that students plan to complete both JAPN 400 and JAPN 401 within one year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 401 or JAPN 301.
Name: JAPN 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Improvement of speaking and writing skills through readings and discussions on a variety of social and cultural issues; emphasis on appropriate language use in formal situations. It is strongly recommended that students plan to complete both JAPN 402 and JAPN 403 within one year. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 402 or JAPN 302.
Name: JAPN 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Oral communication skills appropriate for studying and working in a Japanese-speaking environment either formal or informal. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 450 or JAPN 410.
Name: JAPN 452 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced reading and analysis of scholarly texts in modern Japanese drawn from history, sociology, economics, etc. Advanced conversation, composition, and practice in the use of standard reference tools as preparation for independent research in Japanese. Students are recommended to complete JAPN 403 prior to taking JAPN 452. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 452 or JAPN 406.
Name: JAPN 453 Credits: 3 Desciption: An advanced course in the reading and analysis of literary texts in modern Japanese. Advanced conversation, translation into English and practice in the use of standard reference tools as preparation for advanced research in Japanese. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 453 or JAPN 408.
Name: JAPN 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: Developing fluency in reading contemporary Japanese newspapers; concentration on current and emerging vocabulary, evolving grammatical features, and style of presentation. Credit will be granted for only one of JAPN 456 or JAPN 416.
Name: IWME 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental principles of process design for chemical and biological systems to treat water used in and effluents generated from industrial processes. Industry application examples: mining, oil sands, oil and gas, pulp and paper, agriculture, food and beverage.
Name: IWME 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: Chemical and microbiological quality and contaminations, techniques and analytical procedures for assessing and monitoring chemical and microbiological water quality; water and wastewater quality standards, pollution prevention strategies and policies; risk analysis; asset management.
Name: IWME 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: Art and science of modelling for integrated water resources planning and management; practice of developing and deploying simulation and optimization models to solve water problems; risk informed decision making frameworks and stakeholder processes for analysis of water resources systems.
Name: ITST 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ITST 231 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ITST 232 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ITST 345 Credits: 3 Desciption: The cultural, literary, philosophical roots of Fascism and its evolution: its policies in literature, sports, cinema, architecture, racial legislation, and colonial adventures.
Name: ITST 385 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ITST 413 Credits: 3 Desciption: A close reading of Dante's masterpiece, along with excerpts from some of his other works: Vita Nuova, Convivio, Monarchia, Epistles. Precludes credit for ITAL 403.
Name: ITST 419 Credits: 3 Desciption: Italian literature of the 20th century in its intellectual, socio-political and cultural context. Precludes credit for ITAL 409.
Name: ITST 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: Films with English subtitles. Precludes credit for ITAL 430. Course content will vary. May be taken twice for a total of 6 credits.
Name: ITST 495 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of ITAL 495 or ITST 495.
Name: ITAL 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Grammar, reading, writing, and oral practice for beginners without previous exposure to the Italian language or dialects.
Name: ITAL 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Grammar, reading, writing and oral practice for beginners without previous exposure to the Italian language or dialects.
Name: ITAL 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading, writing and oral practice, with constant and systematic reference to the grammatical structure of the language.
Name: ITAL 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading, writing and oral practice, with constant and systematic reference to the grammatical structure of the language.
Name: ITAL 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading, writing, speaking, comprehension. Special emphasis on oral practice and on composition.
Name: ITAL 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading, writing, speaking, comprehension. Special emphasis on oral practice and on composition.
Name: ITAL 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: A thematic approach to Italian literary works from the origins to the end of the sixteenth century considered in a broad cultural context. Alternates with ITAL 304.
Name: ITAL 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of modern and contemporary Italian literature and culture against the background of social and historical events. Alternates with ITAL 303.
Name: ITAL 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: A close reading of Dante's masterpiece, along with excerpts from some of his other works: Vita Nuova, Convivio, Monarchia, Epistles. Precludes credit for ITST 413.
Name: ITAL 409 Credits: 3 Desciption: Italian literature of the 20th century in its intellectual, socio-political and cultural context. Precludes credit for ITST 419.
Name: ISCI 300 Credits: 1 Desciption: Critical analysis of recent scientific literature that combines disciplines that students are integrating in their Integrated Sciences Curriculum.
Name: ISCI 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Scaling as a general approach to laws governing the geometry, kinematics and dynamics of systems. Dimensional analysis, isometry and allometry applied to topics from Biology, Physics, Earth Science and Economics. Priority to students in the Integrated Sciences Program.
Name: ISCI 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Retreat to develop skills in writing scientific research proposals.  Emphasis on formulating and testing hypotheses to explain observations.  Course location will vary; fee payable prior to retreat.
Name: ISCI 330A Credits: 3 Desciption: Interactive examination of a theme common to all areas of science. Themes will change from year to year. Priority to students in the Integrated Sciences Program.
Name: ISCI 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Using the Darwinian theory of natural selection to explore explanations of infectious diseases, allergies, cancer, mental illness, and other human diseases. Priority to students in the Integrated Sciences Program.
Name: ISCI 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of systems science encompassing geological, hydrological, ecological, atmospheric sciences, and energy systems approaches to study regional sustainability.
Name: ISCI 361 Credits: 3 Desciption: Systems science approaches encompassing geological, hydrological, ecological, atmospheric sciences, and energy systems to investigate a selected region of the world.  Course location will vary; fee payable prior to field course.
Name: ISCI 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Industrial or academic work experience for a minimum of 4 months. Normally taken in Winter Session of third year or Summer Session after third year. Technical report required. Restricted to students in the ISP Co-op program.
Name: ISCI 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Industrial or academic work experience for a minimum of 4 months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in ISP.
Name: ISCI 422 Credits: 3 Desciption: Meaning, nature, use, strengths and limitations of models as investigative tools in all scientific disciplines. Detailed investigation of selected model systems from different scientific disciplines. Priority to students in the Integrated Sciences Program.
Name: ISCI 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical and practical consideration of ethics in the practice, reporting, public impact and accountability of science.
Name: ISCI 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: Permission of the Director is required.
Name: ISCI 448B Credits: 6 Desciption: Permission of the Director is required.
Name: ISCI 448C Credits: 3 Desciption: Permission of the Director is required.
Name: ISCI 448D Credits: 6 Desciption: Permission of the Director is required.
Name: ISCI 448E Credits: 3 Desciption: Permission of the Director is required.
Name: ISCI 448J Credits: 6 Desciption: Permission of the Director is required.
Name: ISCI 490 Credits: 3 Desciption: Self-directed, collaborative studies, in a group-learning environment, initiated and coordinated by senior undergraduate students with the supervision of a faculty advisor. Course structure, enrolment and delivery methods will comply with the Handbook for Student Directed Seminars.
Name: ISCI 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Industrial or academic work experience for a minimum of 4 months.  Technical report required.  Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in ISP.
Name: ISCI 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Industrial or academic work experience for a minimum of 4 months. Technical report required.  Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Program in ISP.
Name: INFO 250 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduces network concepts and methods for exploring social and organizational connectivity for work, socializing, and knowledge production. Examines impact of social media on connections that span space and place; peer production on authority structures; ubiquitous mobile connectivity on daily life.
Name: INFO 419 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic theory and practice required to visually represent information. Introduces design principles and practical skills to create effective information visualizations. Examines effect of different visual representations on understanding and meaning.
Name: INFO 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: Develops capabilities required to assess the need for information policies in professional contexts, evaluate relevant socio-technical dimensions and envision likely implications for specific communities and practice settings.
Name: INDS 502C Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminars, lectures, and discussions of topics involving several faculties. Contact the Interdisciplinary Studies Program for specific topics (www.isgp.ubc.ca).
Name: INDS 502E Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminars, lectures, and discussions of topics involving several faculties. Contact the Interdisciplinary Studies Program for specific topics (www.isgp.ubc.ca).
Name: INDS 502K Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminars, lectures, and discussions of topics involving several faculties. Contact the Interdisciplinary Studies Program for specific topics (www.isgp.ubc.ca).
Name: INDS 502S Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminars, lectures, and discussions of topics involving several faculties. Contact the Interdisciplinary Studies Program for specific topics (www.isgp.ubc.ca).
Name: INDS 502U Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminars, lectures, and discussions of topics involving several faculties. Contact the Interdisciplinary Studies Program for specific topics (www.isgp.ubc.ca).
Name: INDS 530B Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of directed readings related to student's area of interdisciplinary studies. This advanced course may be taken upon approval of the Program head.
Name: INDS 530C Credits: 6 Desciption: A series of directed readings related to student's area of interdisciplinary studies. This advanced course may be taken upon approval of the Program head.
Name: INDS 530D Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of directed readings related to student's area of interdisciplinary studies. This advanced course may be taken upon approval of the Program head.
Name: INDS 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: INDS 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: INDS 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: INDE 440 Credits: 4 Desciption: A senior clinical elective for fourth-year students. Students will participate in all relevant clinical and academic activities associated with the particular rotation.
Name: INDE 441 Credits: 4 Desciption: A senior clinical elective for fourth year students. Students will participate in all relevant clinical and academic activities associated with the particular rotation.
Name: INDE 442 Credits: 4 Desciption: A senior clinical elective for fourth year students. Students will participate in all relevant clinical and academic activities associated with the particular rotation.
Name: INDE 443 Credits: 4 Desciption: A senior clinical elective for fourth year students. Students will participate in all relevant clinical and academic activities associated with the particular rotation.
Name: INDE 450 Credits: 4 Desciption: A senior clinical elective for fourth-year students. Students will participate in all relevant clinical and academic activities associated with the particular rotation.
Name: INDE 451 Credits: 0 Desciption: Final examination for third year encompassing all clinical subjects.
Name: INDE 452 Credits: 2 Desciption: Study in approved ambulatory or community setting during the 3rd year of the MD program.
Name: INDE 453 Credits: 6 Desciption: Diagnostics; therapeutics; information management; evidence-based practice; professionalism and ethics; cultural competence; advanced communication skills; patient safety; health and wellness; and the health care team.
Name: INDE 455 Credits: 4 Desciption: A senior clinical elective for fourth year students. Students will participate in all relevant clinical and academic activities associated with the particular rotation.
Name: IGEN 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Written and oral communication in business correspondence, engineering design methods, report preparation, and oral presentations of technical material.  Restricted to students in second year of the Integrated Engineering Program.
Name: IGEN 230 Credits: 6 Desciption: Introduction to engineering design methods, problem solving, working individually and in teams, and methods of communication of results. Engineering design projects will be assigned. Restricted to students in the second year of the Integrated Engineering program.
Name: IGEN 330 Credits: 6 Desciption: Intermediate level engineering design projects involving material in the curriculum of the Integrated Engineering program.
Name: IGEN 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and skills needed for engineers to capitalize on the opportunities that exist in commercializing technology, including the relationships between ideas and opportunities, customers and competition, and products and solutions.
Name: IGEN 430 Credits: 6 Desciption: Projects involving all material in the curriculum of the Integrated Engineering Program. Students will be expected to propose a project and complete the design and construction of a prototype. Restricted to students in the fourth year of the Integrated Engineering program.
Name: IGEN 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pipeline materials and material selection; fracture mechanics; manufacturing and processing; welding and corrosion; soil-pipe interactions; surveying and site investigations; slope stability; natural hazards; pipeline loads and response.
Name: IGEN 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: Energy infrastructure; pipe flows; equipment and facilities including compressors, pumping stations, coolers, and controls; terminals; pipeline integrity; corrosion control.
Name: IGEN 452 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pipeline and pipeline system design reflecting technical, regulatory, environmental, societal, professional, and economic aspects; pipeline design project.
Name: HUNU 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HUNU 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HUNU 547B Credits: 3 Desciption: In special cases, directed studies on certain aspects of nutrition may be arranged for graduate students in attendance.
Name: HUNU 547E Credits: 6 Desciption: In special cases, directed studies on certain aspects of nutrition may be arranged for graduate students in attendance.
Name: HUNU 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: HUNU 631 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HUNU 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: HPB 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Enhanced building environmental performance and the integration of green building principles, strategies and technologies.
Name: HPB 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: Designing the energy system for a high performance building. Heating, cooling and ventilation load estimation. Heating and cooling using solar, electrical and chemical energy. Air, water, and refrigerant distribution systems. Energy storage. System design project. Design performance assessment.
Name: HIST 101 Credits: 6 Desciption: Origins and diffusion of the world's great religions; cultural contact along overland trade routes; emergence of civilizations such as the Inca, Chinese, and Christian European; ordering of societies and their political development.
Name: HIST 102 Credits: 6 Desciption: The civilizations of Asia, Europe, Africa and the Americas, with emphasis on the political, economic, ecological and cultural links among them, and the impact of oceanic contact, imperialism, warfare, migration, and globalization.
Name: HIST 103 Credits: 6 Desciption: International relations; changes in the nation-state system; the emergence and impact of major political ideologies; genocide; decolonization; the globalization of trade; and the dynamics of economic, social, cultural, and environmental change in a global context.
Name: HIST 104 Credits: 3 Desciption: Thematically-organized topics will explore global aspects of human experience across time. Each section will examine a single theme. Check with the department for course offerings.
Name: HIST 105 Credits: 3 Desciption: Places issues and problems of current relevance such as disease, terrorism, drugs, or ethnic conflict in historical perspective. Each section will explore a single theme. Check with department for course offerings.
Name: HIST 106 Credits: 3 Desciption: The impact humans have had on the environment, and the ways in which the physical environment has shaped human history: climate, agriculture, energy use, and urbanization.
Name: HIST 202B Credits: 3 Desciption: Problems and themes of medieval European History through the close study of the people and cultures that produced them.
Name: HIST 220A Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected themes and historical approaches in European history; may include Europe's history of religious conflict, state formation, colonialism, nationalism, industrialization, revolution, total war, globalization, genocide, or environmental change.
Name: HIST 235 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to major turning points in Canadian history.  Exploration of the social, political, cultural, and environmental transformations/revolutions that have shaped Canada from early European colonialism to the twenty-first century.
Name: HIST 236 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to public history in Canada.  An exploration of the politics and practice of representing the past in a variety of sites, and questions of historical interpretation, memory, and audience.
Name: HIST 237A Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey from colonial period to present examining political system, slavery, Civil War, race relations and civil rights, westward expansion, industrialization, feminism, expanding international presence, Cold War, and modern culture.
Name: HIST 256 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to selected themes and historical approaches in African history. These may include African geography and identities, sources and methodology, pre-modern state formation, gender relations, world religions, labour systems, colonialism, and post-colonialism.
Name: HIST 260 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the historical development, conceptual foundations, and cultural significance of contemporary science. Themes will vary from year to year.
Name: HIST 271 Credits: 3 Desciption: Thematic study of comparisons and relations between Japan and the world outside (primarily Europe and China). Commercial expansion, systems of world order, social institutions, religious and ideological expression, and state organization.
Name: HIST 280 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history of the Islamic world in its global dimensions from its origins to the present day through the themes of religion, law, politics, culture, and modernity.
Name: HIST 302 Credits: 6 Desciption: Indigenous peoples from pre-contact to the present in Canada and the U.S.  Topics include colonial frontiers, disease, fur trade, government policies, environment, gender, religion, oral narratives, activism, urbanization, and identity.
Name: HIST 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Transformation of the British imperial system from the mid-nineteenth century to de-colonization and neo-colonialism after the second World War.
Name: HIST 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pre-colonial, colonial, and contemporary, emphasizing South Africa.
Name: HIST 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history of Africa in the 19th and 20th Centuries: the growth of Islam and Christianity, the impact of European colonialism, the development of nationalism, and the variety of different political and social outcomes after independence.
Name: HIST 318 Credits: 3 Desciption: British society and politics in the era of the two world wars: the liberal reforms before the Great War, war experiences, the Great Depression, and the impact of new political movements.
Name: HIST 319 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of recent British history, with emphasis on de-colonization, emergence of the welfare state, new social movements and patterns of immigration, and Britain's changing relationship with Europe.
Name: HIST 321A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 321B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 321D Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 323 Credits: 3 Desciption: Political, social, cultural, and intellectual transformations that reshaped the Atlantic world between 1763 and 1838; special attention will be given to the American, French, and Haitian Revolutions, the Latin American Wars of Independence and Canadian rebellions.
Name: HIST 324 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of political, cultural and national developments within the British North American colonies in the second half of the nineteenth century. Credit will not be granted for both HIST 324 or 326, if 326 was taken before 2007W.
Name: HIST 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: Includes Aboriginal policy, immigration and national identity; Canada, Britain and the US; World Wars; economic modernization; the Great Depression; regionalism; political and social movements; and the creation of 'Canadian' culture.  Credit will only be granted for one of HIST 325 or 426, if 426 was taken before 2007W.
Name: HIST 326 Credits: 3 Desciption: Includes immigration policy; the welfare state; Aboriginal peoples; the Cold War; resource economies and national politics; continentalism and free trade; constitutional crises; conflicting nationalisms; and new social movements.  Credit will only be granted for one of HIST 326 or 426, if 426 was taken before 2007W.
Name: HIST 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: The complicated political, economic and social history of the United States in the three decades following the Civil War.
Name: HIST 333A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 333B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 333C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 334 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history of African Americans from the beginnings of the African slave trade in the 15th Century through the mid-1800s and the coming of the U.S. Civil War.
Name: HIST 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history of African-Americans from the Civil War and emancipation through the present. Topics include the "Jim Crow" system; the Harlem Renaissance; the Civil Rights Movement; and the current economic and political status of Americans of African ancestry.
Name: HIST 339 Credits: 3 Desciption: American military and geo-political power during and after Cold War; wars in Korea, Vietnam, and Middle East; domestic issues including McCarthyism, social movements (blacks, women, youth, gays and lesbians, and Native Americans), consumerism, immigration, and rise of New Right.
Name: HIST 350 Credits: 6 Desciption: Political, social, and cultural history of the Soviet Union and post-Soviet successor states from 1900 to the present.
Name: HIST 355 Credits: 3 Desciption: The political, social, and cultural history of modern Germany during the "long nineteenth century" (1780s to the early twentieth century).
Name: HIST 356 Credits: 3 Desciption: The political, social, and cultural history of Germany in the twentieth century.
Name: HIST 357 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines themes in the last five hundred years of Mexican history, with an emphasis on the critical reading of primary sources and the use of a variety of texts that may include letters, diaries, paintings, photographs, novels, and movies.
Name: HIST 363 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the development of institutions, ideas and the economy in Europe from about 400 through about 1000 CE.
Name: HIST 364 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the development of institutions, ideas and the economy in Europe from about 1000 CE through the fourteenth century.
Name: HIST 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: The interplay between new and traditional ideas, styles, and institutions from the fourteenth to the mid-sixteenth century, with emphasis upon the relationship of social, economic, and political factors to intellectual and cultural change.
Name: HIST 366 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of European history that place both the Protestant Reformation and the Catholic Reformation in the broader context of the political, social, cultural, and economic changes during the early modern era.
Name: HIST 367 Credits: 3 Desciption: Europe during the age of the Enlightenment, from the end of the religious wars to the French Revolution, with emphasis on political, social, cultural, and intellectual changes in their global context.
Name: HIST 368 Credits: 3 Desciption: An investigation of main themes in European history from the French Revolution to the beginning of the 20th century. Topics of particular importance are: domestic politics; the interaction of states; the formation of new states; social and economic transformations affecting the whole civilization; major cultural expressions of the century.
Name: HIST 369 Credits: 3 Desciption: Europe in the first half of the twentieth century. Themes include the imperialist system, two world wars and their aftermaths, political and social movements of the interwar years, the Depression, and the crisis of liberal democracy. Credit will only be granted for one of HIST 369 or 462.
Name: HIST 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: Europe since the middle of the twentieth century. Themes include the Cold War, the development of separate social and political systems in Western and Eastern Europe, the emergence of the welfare state, and the problems of European integration.
Name: HIST 373 Credits: 3 Desciption: History, culture, and identities of Hong Kong from the early 1800s to the present.
Name: HIST 376 Credits: 6 Desciption: The building of a modern state, its crisis in the 1930s, and its postwar recovery; topics include business institutions, politics, imperialism, intellectual syncretism, social change, and Japan's growing influence in the world.
Name: HIST 378 Credits: 3 Desciption: History of China from the earliest times to the disintegration of the Tang Empire. Students will acquire the analytical skills and tools to understand the origins and foundations of Chinese society.
Name: HIST 380C Credits: 6 Desciption: The history of China from 1800 to the present including the decline of the Qing empire, the rise of modern nationalism, foreign invasion, and China's multiple revolutions.
Name: HIST 382 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history of the Japanese occupation, wars of independence, international relations of the independent nation-states, and internal armed conflicts. Special attention will be paid to the wars in Vietnam, Indonesia, and East Timor.
Name: HIST 385 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploration of the rise of the East India Company as territorial power, the formation of a colonial society in India, competing responses to British rule, the struggle for independence, and the legacies of partition.
Name: HIST 387 Credits: 3 Desciption: History of medieval India explored through different stories from and about India's pre-modern past. Studies trends in society, religion, politics, and material life to reveal the dynamism of this period and to challenge simplified narratives of Hindu-Muslim confrontation.
Name: HIST 388 Credits: 3 Desciption: History of India during the period of Mughal rule (roughly 1500-1750). Studies the role of India and the Mughals within the global dynamics of the early modern world.
Name: HIST 391 Credits: 3 Desciption: Changing ideas about humanity and rights. Considers the relationship between human rights and the nation-state, imperialism, and capitalism. Assesses the efforts to end large-scale human rights violations and the role of the United Nations.
Name: HIST 393 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of historical, conceptual, and methodological conditions of scientific knowledge through detailed consideration of important episodes in the history of science.
Name: HIST 394 Credits: 3 Desciption: Darwin and the science of evolution in nineteenth and early twentieth century.
Name: HIST 402A Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics such as trade, migration, diplomacy, war, migration, colonialism, and post- colonialism. Priority for registration to majors in History or International Relations.
Name: HIST 403A Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in the history of international relations. Priority for registration will be given to fourth-year majors in the International Relations and History programs.
Name: HIST 403B Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in the history of international relations. Priority for registration will be given to fourth-year majors in the International Relations and History programs.
Name: HIST 403E Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in the history of international relations. Priority for registration will be given to fourth-year majors in the International Relations and History programs.
Name: HIST 403H Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in the history of international relations. Priority for registration will be given to fourth-year majors in the International Relations and History programs.
Name: HIST 403J Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in the history of international relations. Priority for registration will be given to fourth-year majors in the International Relations and History programs.
Name: HIST 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: International relations in the Middle East in the aftermath of the Ottoman Empire, with special attention to the conflicts between Jews of Palestine/Israel and their Arab neighbours.
Name: HIST 408 Credits: 3 Desciption: U.S. foreign policy and international history.  Examines the American rise to power and political, economic, and cultural relationships between the United States and other peoples, organizations, and states worldwide.
Name: HIST 409 Credits: 3 Desciption: U.S. foreign policy and international history.  Political, economic, and cultural relationships between the United States and other peoples, organizations, and states worldwide.
Name: HIST 413 Credits: 3 Desciption: The political and intellectual history of the concept of the nation in French and English Canada, and the different forms of nationalism it inspired from the middle of the nineteenth century to the 1995 Quebec Referendum.
Name: HIST 418 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history of the 1960s from a transnational perspective: culture, social change, student activism, and global conflict.
Name: HIST 420A Credits: 3 Desciption: May include immigration, French-English relations, the growth of the state, health and welfare, or the family.
Name: HIST 421A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 421B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 421D Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 425 Credits: 6 Desciption: Continuity and change in the relations of war and society, the connections between the economy, society, the military, and government in peacetime as well as war; not a course in military history.
Name: HIST 432 Credits: 6 Desciption: The international relations of the great powers from the end of the First World War to the end of the Cold War.
Name: HIST 433 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of the systematic attempt to destroy European Jewry during the Nazi regime, 1933-1945. Topics of special importance include: the motivations and behaviour of the perpetrators; the reactions of the victims; the roles of bystanders.
Name: HIST 444 Credits: 3 Desciption: A comparative analysis of the institution of chattel slavery, its growth, its effects on slaves and masters, its relation to the larger society, and the causes of its decline, in the various cultures of the Americas.
Name: HIST 449 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 450A Credits: 3 Desciption: A study in depth of one major topic (such as the Cuban Revolution or Peronismo) in the recent history of Latin America.
Name: HIST 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: The construction of gender ideologies and gendered and sexual identities, including masculine, feminine, and transgendered, in modern Latin America.
Name: HIST 468A Credits: 3 Desciption: Comparative  interdisciplinary analysis of selected topics in Indigenous history in North America and beyong. HIST 302 or other background in the field is recommended.
Name: HIST 469 Credits: 3 Desciption: Colonial land policy, Indigenous resistance and organizing, treaties, and court decisions. Some previous knowledge of Indigenous history is strongly recommended.
Name: HIST 483 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines both the historical and contemporary contexts for migration from Asia to Canada and the Americas.
Name: HIST 484 Credits: 3 Desciption: Confucian societies are often thought of as ones in which the brush is mightier than the sword. In fact the military has been a crucial factor in East Asia, and warfare has been the engine which has driven many of the most significant changes in East Asian history. This course will look at the evolution of East Asian military systems, and at the impact of recurrent warfare on East Asia societies.
Name: HIST 490A Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected problems in the theory and practice of historical work. Check with the department for course offerings. Restricted to fourth year students majoring in History or in the History and Philosophy of Science. Also open to History Honours students.
Name: HIST 490N Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected problems in the theory and practice of historical work. Check with the department for course offerings. Restricted to fourth year students majoring in History or in the History and Philosophy of Science. Also open to History Honours students.
Name: HIST 490P Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected problems in the theory and practice of historical work. Check with the department for course offerings. Restricted to fourth year students majoring in History or in the History and Philosophy of Science. Also open to History Honours students.
Name: HIST 490Q Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected problems in the theory and practice of historical work. Check with the department for course offerings. Restricted to fourth year students majoring in History or in the History and Philosophy of Science. Also open to History Honours students.
Name: HIST 490R Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected problems in the theory and practice of historical work. Check with the department for course offerings. Restricted to fourth year students majoring in History or in the History and Philosophy of Science. Also open to History Honours students.
Name: HIST 490T Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected problems in the theory and practice of historical work. Check with the department for course offerings. Restricted to fourth year students majoring in History or in the History and Philosophy of Science. Also open to History Honours students.
Name: HIST 490Y Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected problems in the theory and practice of historical work. Check with the department for course offerings. Restricted to fourth year students majoring in History or in the History and Philosophy of Science. Also open to History Honours students.
Name: HIST 547D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 548D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 563 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 568 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 594 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 597A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 597B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 597C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 599 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: HIST 699 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: HINU 102 Credits: 6 Desciption: Spoken Hindi and Urdu, and written Hindi. As of 2011W, credit will be granted for only one of HINU 100/101 or HINU 102.
Name: HGSE 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the history of Indigenous peoples in relation to the Canadian colonial state contrasting the Indigenous historical experience with conventional accounts of Canadian history.
Name: HGSE 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Background on sources of Aboriginal and Canadian law; detail on section 35 of the Constitution Act; a review of relevant Canadian case law; insight on the importance of international law; and literature on governance.
Name: HGSE 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Notions of reconciliation and restitution that have emerged in Canada across space and time; key principles, discourses, legal and Constitutional mechanisms, actions and actors.
Name: HGSE 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: Relationships and reconciliation processes between First Nations and other governments in the context of land and sea governance.
Name: HGSE 314 Credits: 3 Desciption: In-depth exploration of the communities of Haida Gwaii through community-based experiences and community service learning.
Name: HGSE 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integration of concepts of history, politics, First Nations, rural development, and forest ecology in natural resources management in Haida Gwaii.  A core element of the Haida Gwaii Semester.
Name: HGSE 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Historical examination of resource management in Canada and conflicts arising therefrom, with emphasis on forests.  A core element of the Haida Gwaii Semester.
Name: HGSE 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: The political, economic, and legal environment of Aboriginal-Canadian relations and its influence on resource use and management; review of historic relationships, emerging case law, and new reconciliation frameworks. A core element of the Haida Gwaii Semester.
Name: HGSE 353 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ecology of the temperate rainforests of Haida Gwaii.  A core element of the Haida Gwaii Semester.
Name: HGSE 354 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of the forces that restructure local economies, both historically and contemporarily; link between rural economic development and the legacy of resource development in Aboriginal communities across British Columbia.  A core element of the Haida Gwaii Semester.
Name: HGSE 355 Credits: 3 Desciption: Processes that shape coastal terrestrial ecosystems through time and applications to current ecological reality.  Part of the Haida Gwaii Fall Semester.
Name: HGSE 356 Credits: 3 Desciption: Nutrient cycling between the marine environment and coastal forest ecosystems; how the physical characteristics of this interface affect inputs; which species play a pivotal role in driving interactions.  Part of the Haida Gwaii Fall Semester.
Name: HGSE 357 Credits: 3 Desciption: Unique biological attributes of island wildlife, such as subspecies, isolated populations, and distinct evolutionary pathways, with a focus on endemic species on Haida Gwaii.  Part of the Haida Gwaii Fall Semester.  Credit will be granted for only one of FRST 395 or HGSE 357.
Name: HGSE 358 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to systems thinking and resilience to understand dynamics of social change and innovation; use of case studies to demonstrate applications of different types of ecological knowledge, including traditional knowledge and experiential knowledge. Part of the Haida Gwaii Fall Semester.
Name: HGSE 359 Credits: 3 Desciption: History, definitions, and applications of EBM; challenges of achieving both economic and environmental well-being with a focus on resource use and management on Haida Gwaii.  Part of the Haida Gwaii Fall Semester.
Name: HEBR 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: The second year of Biblical Hebrew with emphasis on rapid reading of poetry and prose along with grammar.
Name: HEBR 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: The second year of Biblical Hebrew with emphasis on rapid reading of poetry and prose along with grammar.
Name: GSAT 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory, application, and operation of instrumentation employed in modern genomics research: data analysis.
Name: GSAT 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current approaches to high-throughput, system-wide analysis, and manipulation of biological systems.
Name: GSAT 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced study under the direction of a faculty member composed of laboratory sessions and/or directed readings related to selected areas of genome science and technology.
Name: GSAT 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GSAT 599 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: GSAT 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: GRSJ 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of intersectional feminist debates and theoretical traditions. Credit will be granted for only one of WMST 100 or GRSJ 101.
Name: GRSJ 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Intersectional feminist theory and practice, focusing on contemporary issues in a transnational context. Credit will be granted for only one of WMST 100 or GRSJ 102.
Name: GRSJ 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: An interdisciplinary and cross-cultural overview of contemporary environmental issues, as they relate to gender equality and social justice challenges and initiatives that respond to ecological crises.
Name: GRSJ 224A Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of literary study, with emphasis on intersectionality and the ways in which gender is represented in literature and contributions of feminism and gender studies to literary studies.
Name: GRSJ 224B Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of literary study, with emphasis on intersectionality and the ways in which gender is represented in literature and contributions of feminism and gender studies to literary studies.
Name: GRSJ 224C Credits: 6 Desciption: Techniques of literary study, with emphasis on intersectionality and the ways in which gender is represented in literature and contributions of feminism and gender studies to literary studies.
Name: GRSJ 235 Credits: 3 Desciption: Situates Asia in a global context and explores the complex relationships between gender, social structures, and social change.
Name: GRSJ 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interdisciplinary exploration of the multiple intersections between gender and (neo)colonialism, racism, poverty, ableism, and heterosexism in a globalized world; historical and cross-cultural aspects, and the social construction of sex and gender, masculinity and femininity.
Name: GRSJ 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of feminist legal thought and recent developments in feminism and law, with a focus on Canada.
Name: GRSJ 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical examination and practical applications of concepts, theories, methods, and strategies of gender-aware organizing at the community and international levels.
Name: GRSJ 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical examination of the gender dimension of globalization and the theories, discourse, and practices in international politics using gender analysis.
Name: GRSJ 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical examination of mainstream and alternative media images of gender, race, and sexuality in the context of networked social media, film, music, and television.
Name: GRSJ 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interdisciplinary introduction to gender and health issues using selected theoretical frameworks.
Name: GRSJ 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: An interdisciplinary survey of gender studies and histories of African/Black women in the Americas from the beginning of the slave trade to the present.
Name: GRSJ 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Feminist pedagogies and feminist debates about pedagogy in formal, nonformal, and informal educational settings.
Name: GRSJ 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: Data collection techniques, the politics of interpretation, and the formulation of a research proposal using a feminist, anti-racist framework.
Name: GRSJ 326 Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of historical and contemporary scholarship on the diversity of families, focusing on differences of gender, sexuality, race/ethnicity, and social class within and across national borders.
Name: GRSJ 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: Feminist scholarship emphasizing languages and processes of representation and the construction of difference in cultural discourses and institutions.
Name: GRSJ 328 Credits: 3 Desciption: How feminist scholarship has shaped and reinterpreted accounts of the subject, drawing on such traditions as structuralism, poststructuralism, psychoanalysis, postcolonialism, postmodernism, and Queer Theory.
Name: GRSJ 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: An interdisciplinary examination of the body, exploring how social relations and space are implicated in the constitution and experience of gendered bodies and identities, with an emphasis on feminist analyses of body-societal relations.
Name: GRSJ 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines religious feminism from three Abrahamic traditions. An in-depth study of challenges various doctrinal discourses and practices pose for feminist projects.
Name: GRSJ 422 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical theories, methodologies, ethics and practices appropriate for advanced feminist research.
Name: GRSJ 425A Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination in depth of selected topics in gender, race, and sexuality. Consult the Student Service Centre course schedule for course offerings. May be repeated for credit.
Name: GRSJ 450A Credits: 3 Desciption: General reading and/or a research undertaking, with the agreement, and under supervision of, a faculty member selected by the student and approved by the GRSJ Undergraduate Advisor. A written paper or equivalent will be required. Open to GRSJ majors or minors.
Name: GRSJ 450B Credits: 3 Desciption: General reading and/or a research undertaking, with the agreement, and under supervision of, a faculty member selected by the student and approved by the GRSJ Undergraduate Advisor. A written paper or equivalent will be required. Open to GRSJ majors or minors.
Name: GRSJ 450C Credits: 6 Desciption: General reading and/or a research undertaking, with the agreement, and under supervision of, a faculty member selected by the student and approved by the GRSJ Undergraduate Advisor. A written paper or equivalent will be required. Open to GRSJ majors or minors.
Name: GRSJ 480 Credits: 3 Desciption: Connects feminist and critical race theory and practice through placement in a community organization. As is the case with all UBC practice-related courses, this course requires a Criminal Record Check. Open to GRSJ Majors or Minors. This course is graded Pass/Fail.
Name: GRSJ 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GRSJ 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GRSJ 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GRSJ 503E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GRSJ 504A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GRSJ 505A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GRSJ 505B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GRSJ 505C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: GRSJ 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GRSJ 520B Credits: 9 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: GRSJ 606 Credits: 0 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: GRS 290 Credits: 2 Desciption: Students interact face-to-face and on-line as a community of learners to discuss global issues in agriculture, food, and natural resources in cultural context. Typically taken prior to studying abroad.
Name: GRS 390 Credits: 2 Desciption: Students interact face-to-face and on-line as a community of learners to discuss global issues in agriculture, food, and natural resources in cultural context. Typically taken while studying abroad.
Name: GRS 397A Credits: 2 Desciption: Participating students may be assessed a fee.
Name: GRS 397B Credits: 3 Desciption: Participating students may be assessed a fee.
Name: GRS 490 Credits: 2 Desciption: Students interact face-to-face and on-line as a community of learners to discuss global issues in agriculture, food, and natural resources in cultural context. Typically taken after studying abroad.
Name: GRS 497B Credits: 3 Desciption: Participating students may be assessed a fee.
Name: GRS 497E Credits: 6 Desciption: Participating students may be assessed a fee.
Name: GREK 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to Classical and Hellenistic Greek, Part I.
Name: GREK 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to Classical and Hellenistic Greek, Part II.
Name: GREK 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Completion of the grammatical foundations of Ancient Greek, Part I.
Name: GREK 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: Completion of the grammatical foundations of Ancient Greek, Part II; introduction to the reading of unadapted passages of Greek literature.
Name: GREK 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in the major authors in Greek Prose.
Name: GREK 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in the major authors in Greek Verse.
Name: GREK 401A Credits: 3 Desciption: Studies in history, philosophy and/or oratory. It is recommended that the corequisite course be completed prior to GREK 401.
Name: GREK 402B Credits: 3 Desciption: Studies in epic, tragedy and/or comedy. It is recommended that the corequisite course be completed prior to GREK 402.
Name: GREK 501A Credits: 3 Desciption: History, philosophy and/or oratory.  Credit will not be given for both GREK 401 and GREK 501.
Name: GREK 502B Credits: 3 Desciption: Epic, tragedy and/or comedy.  Credit will not be given for both GREK 402 and GREK 502.
Name: GREK 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: GREK 550A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GREK 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: GPP 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basics of supply and demand; fundamentals of decision making by consumers, households and firms; market structure and sources of market failure that necessitate policy interventions.
Name: GPP 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduces challenges of an interlinked global economy through modern macroeconomics. International linkages through labor, capital and goods markets, monetary and fiscal policy linkages, currency and debt crises. Theory and real-world applications.
Name: GPP 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental quantitative tools for policy analysis and program evaluation, including measurement, data visualization, and regression analysis. Introduction of skills for the design and implementation of quantitative policy analysis.
Name: GPP 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamentals of policy analysis and program evaluation for a professional context. Standard tools of policy analysis, risk assessment, and evaluation to design policy interventions and implement monitoring and evaluation systems for effectiveness. Case studies for government, international organizations, and NGOs.
Name: GPP 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories and frameworks related to policy-making processes at domestic and global level. Agenda setting, policy formulation, decision-making, policy implementation, and policy evaluation.
Name: GPP 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: Governmental implementation and delivery of public policy. Variations in international practice, the growing interdependence of governments, firms and non-government organizations. Complexities of multi-level governance including control and accountability of governments.
Name: GPP 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: Environmental law and policy creation, implementation, and enforcement at the international, national, and sub-national levels. Evolution of environmental law and policy, legal institutions, and major areas of law relating to ecological sustainability.
Name: GPP 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: Inter-cultural communication skills, entrepreneurship, and effective community engagement in policy work.
Name: GPP 509 Credits: 3 Desciption: The role of media, especially new media, in effectively communicating policy to stakeholders, including issues of transparency and accountability. Focus on communications formats including written, oral, and multimedia policy communications.
Name: GPP 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Micro-scale processes of development, including the challenges posed by persistent poverty, and ground-level development solutions. Measurement and empirical evaluation of development interventions and outcomes.
Name: GPP 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: The meaning of development and micro/macro aspects of policy planning and implementation for development. The rise of development thought; assessment of the outcomes of development for different countries and communities.
Name: GPP 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: Policy debates surrounding Corporate Social Responsibility including: voluntary regulation initiatives; responsibility to stakeholders in global supply chains; public-private partnerships; socially responsible investing; transparency; and protection of human rights.
Name: GPP 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: Energy sources, markets, and impacts critical to energy policy, including oil, natural gas and coal markets; electricity and utilities policy; local and global environmental impacts; renewable energy; nuclear power and security; energy efficiency; technological innovation; and energy poverty.
Name: GPP 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: Role and influence of science and technology in society, and its relationship to public policy development including: history and economics of technological change.
Name: GPP 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: Environmental and natural resource economics: externalities, property rights, public goods, market failure, inter-generational trade-offs, and optimal extraction of biological and depletable resources. Environmental regulation, industrial competitiveness, and distribution of income and welfare.
Name: GPP 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: International policy processes associated with themes of environmental security: disaster prevention; resource curse; institution building and conflict minerals and global expropriation. Issues to be considered include human rights advocacy and peacekeeping, food security and food sovereignty.
Name: GPP 564 Credits: 3 Desciption: Asian state policies on security threats that impact their national and human security including: civil-military relations, intrastate conflict, transnational crime, spread of disease, and environmental and natural disasters, geo-political power shift, defence modernization, resurgent nationalism, and historical legacies.
Name: GPP 565 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ethnic and religious conflict in Asia related to historical and dialectic development of different forms of nationalism; the confluence between religion, ethnicity, and nationalist ideologies in the escalation of conflicts in different Asian societies.
Name: GPP 566 Credits: 3 Desciption: Comprehensive and systematic assessments and analyses of political dynamics, policy behaviors, and diplomatic interactions of Asian countries. Major diplomatic issues, cross-cutting diplomatic challenges, and opportunities facing countries in the region.
Name: GPP 580 Credits: 3 Desciption: The impact of Internet on policy and global affairs structural changes to: economy with reduced transaction costs; media through new publishing forms; politics through new structures for collective action; law through limits of privacy and confidentiality; governance through e-government.
Name: GPP 582 Credits: 3 Desciption: Public engagement in policy-making processes including: stakeholder engagement in diverse sustainability policy debates; outcomes and how they influence policy; best practices and lessons learned in North America and Europe.
Name: GPP 583 Credits: 3 Desciption: Global food security challenges including: biophysical, economic, nutritional, socio-political, and institutional aspects. Geography of agricultural production, role of price and supply shocks, causes of malnutrition, and environmental impacts.
Name: GPP 584 Credits: 3 Desciption: Climate science and impacts including: carbon management options; mitigation and energy system changes; efficiency options; ?end-of-pipe? solutions; vulnerability and adaptation to climate change; carbon economics and organization-level strategies in a carbon-constrained world.
Name: GPP 590A Credits: 6 Desciption: Professional team-based project that incorporates training, feedback on project proposals, possible field work, engagement with client organizations, data gathering and analysis, and a major deliverable such as a policy report.
Name: GPP 590B Credits: 6 Desciption: Professional team-based project that incorporates training, feedback on project proposals, possible field work, engagement with client organizations, data gathering and analysis, and a major deliverable such as a policy report.
Name: GPP 591B Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings respond to current policy debates, topics of emerging interest, availability of visiting scholars, and interest in non-traditional courses incorporating practitioner expertise, interest in particular disciplinary perspectives missing from core courses and electives, and interest in specific regions or countries.
Name: GPP 591C Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings respond to current policy debates, topics of emerging interest, availability of visiting scholars, and interest in non-traditional courses incorporating practitioner expertise, interest in particular disciplinary perspectives missing from core courses and electives, and interest in specific regions or countries.
Name: GPP 591D Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings respond to current policy debates, topics of emerging interest, availability of visiting scholars, and interest in non-traditional courses incorporating practitioner expertise, interest in particular disciplinary perspectives missing from core courses and electives, and interest in specific regions or countries.
Name: GERM 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the language.  Ability to communicate accurately in a variety of everyday situations.  See also GERM 433.
Name: GERM 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the language. Ability to communicate accurately in a variety of everyday situations, speak about past events and express ideas and hypotheses in German. See also GERM 433.
Name: GERM 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Competence and fluency in everyday situations; ability to report and narrate past events fluently and to express opinions; familiarity with contemporary issues in the German-speaking societies.
Name: GERM 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: Competence and fluency in everyday situations; ability to report and narrate past events fluently and to express opinions; familiarity with contemporary issues in the German-speaking societies; introduction to German for professional purposes.
Name: GERM 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fluency in many relevant situations; competence in the most important areas of cultural life; familiarity with study resources and study skills. Review and expansion of grammar; fostering of speaking and writing skills.
Name: GERM 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading and discussion of selected works against the background of literary, social, and political developments in twentieth-century Germany with special emphasis on plays and novels dealing with the First World War and Nazism.
Name: GERM 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading and discussion of selected literary works from West, East, and the United Germany, as well as from Austria and Switzerland.
Name: GERM 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading and discussion of translated works from the German-speaking countries from the Middle Ages to 1900.
Name: GERM 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: Screening, discussion, and critical analysis of German cinema from the silent era to the 21st century.
Name: GERM 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fostering of the ability to discuss controversial issues, express ideas clearly in writing and write essays on selected topics in German. Ongoing grammar review and expansion.
Name: GERM 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: Emphasis on the study of oral communication skills and strategies. Fluency in many situations, communicative competence in important areas of cultural life, ability to participate in discussions of current as well as controversial issues to express ideas clearly in spoken word.
Name: GERM 314 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of the most important grammatical patterns in application to business geography, import-export trade, marketing, finance, accounting, taxation, workplace conditions and requirements; oral and written forms of presentation for work with German business.
Name: GERM 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory, methodology, and practice of translation from German into English.
Name: GERM 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: Masterpieces and major trends of the German literature of the Middle Ages, Renaissance and Baroque against the larger background of the political and social developments of the period.
Name: GERM 380 Credits: 3 Desciption: Masterpieces and major trends of ninteenth-century German literature against the larger background of the political and social developments of the period.
Name: GERM 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Near-native competence and thorough understanding of critical contemporary topics in a limited number of areas fostering study skills. All skills will be fostered but the course focuses on accurate writing and conversation in particular.
Name: GERM 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of individual works and genres in which words and music together form a whole. Possible topics include the Lutheran Hymn, the Volkslied, the Romantic Lied and Brecht songs, operas by Mozart, Wagner and Strauss, and music and the musician as a subject in literature. No musical training is necessary to take this course.
Name: GERM 403A Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics of special interest, varying from year to year.
Name: GERM 406A Credits: 3 Desciption: A study in depth of one topic of special interest, varying from year to year depending on interests of faculty and students. Possible topics: literature and film, the image of the outside world in German literature, individualism and conformism.
Name: GERM 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of capabilities to deal with a variety of authentic texts from and about Germany, Austria and Switzerland; fostering of communicative skills, cross-cultural analysis and critical thinking; effective and accurate communication in both spoken and written German.
Name: GERM 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected debates and controversies in the German-speaking countries.
Name: GERM 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Major themes and methods in German media studies.
Name: GERM 414 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of the most important grammatical patterns in application to business geography, import-export trade, marketing, finance, accounting, taxation, workplace conditions and requirements; oral and written forms of presentation for work with German business. Formerly GERM 314.
Name: GERM 426 Credits: 3 Desciption: The German Nazi Holocaust in German literature and film.
Name: GERM 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: A multimedia introduction to reading skills in German leading to a second year reading knowledge in just one term. Students are expected to work largely independently. Course restricted to beginners or to students with no more than one term of beginner's German (or equivalent).
Name: GERM 434 Credits: 3 Desciption: Multimedia teaching of reading skills in German for special purposes. Students are expected to work largely independently. Focuses on specific topics of the student's choice in the humanities, the natural sciences, economics/business and music and enhances skills in technical reading.
Name: GERM 500A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GERM 501A Credits: 3 Desciption: This course is taught in English.
Name: GERM 513A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GERM 520B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GERM 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: This course is taught in English.
Name: GERM 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: This course is taught in English.
Name: GERM 531B Credits: 3 Desciption: This course is taught in English.
Name: GERM 547B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GERM 548 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GERM 549 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: GERM 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: GEOG 121 Credits: 3 Desciption: Human geography of the modern world with particular attention to human-environment relationships, urbanization, and regional growth; trade and communications; environment and war; environmental governance and sustainability.
Name: GEOG 122 Credits: 3 Desciption: The human geography of the modern world since 1945: global interdependence in economic geography, geopolitics, and cultural geography; consequences of modernization, including demography, urbanization and environmental effects; regional case studies; reactions to modernization.
Name: GEOG 211 Credits: 3 Desciption: The demographic, economic, ecological, and technological factors that underlie current environmental challenges, considering their effects to date and their possible impact in the future.
Name: GEOG 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Political geographic perspectives on todays interdependent world through three themes: borders, regions, and flows.
Name: GEOG 250 Credits: 3 Desciption: An interdisciplinary introduction to the city in the context of contemporary globalization. Analysis of urban patterns and processes from the theoretical perspectives of various disciplines and methodologies.
Name: GEOG 281 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to changing geographies (social, economic, and political) of the Pacific Rim, with special emphasis on the relationships between Canada and Japan.
Name: GEOG 290 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in human geography focusing on the regional distribution of natural resources, population, urban systems, and economic activities.
Name: GEOG 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts of environment, resources and sustainability; the roles of physical and human geography in understanding the interaction of humans and the environment; introduction to management of environment-resource systems.
Name: GEOG 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: The impact of urban development on the natural environment and vice versa. Study of the ecology and metabolism of cities and green urban design, using global and local case studies.
Name: GEOG 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Climates over the geological, historical and instrument periods. Theories of climatic change. Monitoring and modelling the climate system. Impacts of change on environmental and socio-economic systems.
Name: GEOG 316 Credits: 3 Desciption: The role of geophysical events, human ecology, environmental perception, world social and political order in explaining the risk of natural disasters. Assessment of acceptable risk, disaster relief and reconstruction and contrasts between developed and developing nations.
Name: GEOG 318 Credits: 3 Desciption: Biophysical and human causes of short- and long-term environmental change at various spatial scales, including measurement, interpretation, and policy.
Name: GEOG 319 Credits: 3 Desciption: The principles, implementation, and role of environmental impact assessment in environmental management, in Canada and internationally.
Name: GEOG 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: From the origins of urbanism to the modern era.
Name: GEOG 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: Canada from the beginning of European contact to the mid-19th century, stressing the changing geographical patterns of settlement, economy, and culture.
Name: GEOG 328 Credits: 3 Desciption: The construction of Canadian political space after Confederation, aboriginal-newcomer relations, regional development and conflict, industrialization, urbanization, and war.
Name: GEOG 329 Credits: 3 Desciption: The heritage of political geography; the spatial structure of political organization including regional and global structures.
Name: GEOG 345 Credits: 3 Desciption: A consideration of major intellectual issues and debates in the development of contemporary human geography, in relation to developments in other fields and changes in politics, culture and society.
Name: GEOG 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: City systems and theories of urban location; internal spatial structure of the city; commercial and industrial location; social areas; neighbourhood and land use change; urban trends and public policy.
Name: GEOG 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: Urbanization in the developing countries of Latin America, Africa, and Asia; the role of cities in the development process and the features and problems of rapid urbanization.
Name: GEOG 353 Credits: 3 Desciption: International regimes regulating migration, changes in global demographics, immigration policies of nation states, international migration patterns, settlement policies and outcomes.
Name: GEOG 357 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of social and behavioural geography, focusing on how places, landscapes, and enviromments both reflect and shape social life.
Name: GEOG 361 Credits: 3 Desciption: History and methods of economic geography. Location of resource industries, manufacturing, and service activities with emphasis on British Columbia in its North American and world setting. Recommended for students with no previous exposure to Economic Geography, before taking other courses in the 36x and 46x series.
Name: GEOG 364 Credits: 3 Desciption: Forms of economic development; changing location of economic activities and functions; implications for government and politics; local strategies for growth and equity.
Name: GEOG 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: Formulating a research problem and selecting an appropriate research strategy. Research strategies range from social scientific survey methods to ethnography. Priority enrolment for honours and major students in Geography.
Name: GEOG 374 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to statistical techniques and their application to geographical problems. Priority enrolment for honours and major students in Geography. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: GEOG 380 Credits: 3 Desciption: A comparative regional analysis stressing the historical development and changing cultural, economic, and political patterns of the area. Special reference to India, Indonesia, China, and Japan.
Name: GEOG 390A Credits: 3 Desciption: A geographical analysis of selected regions not regularly included in the Department's offerings in regional geography (e.g., tropical Africa, Oceania). Students should consult the Department regarding regions to be covered.
Name: GEOG 391 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introductory survey, focusing on the present-day human geography of the area between the Atlantic and the Ural Mountains.
Name: GEOG 395 Credits: 3 Desciption: Socio-ecologies in 1491; Spanish colonialism and biological imperialism; contemporary coloniality and neoliberalism; and social movements.
Name: GEOG 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Geographical analysis of society-environment relations. Relates resource management to environmental politics, political economy, and sustainable development. Perspectives drawn from political ecology and political economy, environmental history and environmental philosophy.
Name: GEOG 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interdisciplinary analysis of critical water issues, in Canada and internationally.  Focus on social science perspectives.  Emphasis on presentation, research, and essay-writing skills.
Name: GEOG 423 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of how attitudes toward human nature and non-human nature have changed from Mesolithic times to the present in Western society.
Name: GEOG 424 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introductory survey of contemporary feminist approaches to human geography.
Name: GEOG 446A Credits: 3 Desciption: See the departmental undergraduate adviser for details.
Name: GEOG 446B Credits: 3 Desciption: See the departmental undergraduate adviser for details.
Name: GEOG 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Individual or group primary research. Instructor and content vary and it may be offered over 2 terms. Details available from Geography Undergraduate Advisor from April 1 preceding the course. Not necessarily offered each year.
Name: GEOG 453 Credits: 3 Desciption: Political organization of space; territorial and spatial patterns of power and identity; contemporary geopolitical struggles.
Name: GEOG 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: The complex interrelations between film and the city; dominant urban theories, film technologies and viewing practices and the intersections between them.
Name: GEOG 457 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories of social change in the global city; labour markets; poverty and inequality; social polarization; housing markets; gentrification and housing affordability; immigration and segregation; diversity and multiculturalism; transnationalism; the entrepreneurial state; the convivial city.
Name: GEOG 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: A critical analysis of significant human adaptations to changing ecological conditions in the Japanese archipelago. Normally alternates with GEOG 468.
Name: GEOG 495 Credits: 3 Desciption: The politics of North-South solidarity in theory and practice through community service learning models.
Name: GEOG 497 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical and biological characteristics of the circumpolar Arctic, emphasizing terrestrial environments and the impacts on and by humans, including: glacial history; climatology; biogeography/ecology of arctic tundra; human-environment interactions, settlement and exploration; and current environmental, social and economic problems.
Name: GEOG 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical analysis of economic, social, and political development and processes defining the modern Middle East region.
Name: GEOG 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Themes and interpretive issues in modern human geography. Students from outside Geography require the permission of the Head of the department.
Name: GEOG 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOG 547A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOG 547B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: GEOG 548 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: GEOG 560A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOG 560B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOG 572A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOG 599 Credits: 15 Desciption: 
Name: GEOG 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: GEOB 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Energy and water in the Earth-Atmosphere system, global climates and climate change, ecosystem properties and processes, human impacts. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: GEOB 103 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical processes acting at the Earth's surface; water cycle; landforms; human impacts. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: GEOB 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical principles underlying weather and climates. Thermal, moisture and wind climates at scales from valleys to the globe. Daily weather, air pollution, global change. Credit will be granted for only one of GEOB 200, GEOB 204, GEOG 200, GEOG 204, or AGRO 244.
Name: GEOB 204 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic principles and processes of climatology. Energy and water balance concepts. Weather systems and climate change, microclimate of soils, crops, forests, and animals. Credit will be granted for only one of GEOB 200, GEOB 204, or APBI 244.
Name: GEOB 206 Credits: 3 Desciption: Earth surface processes shaping the landscape; identification of hazards and hazardous areas associated with these processes; introduction to techniques for measurement and analysis at various spatial and time scales; field trips are required.
Name: GEOB 207 Credits: 3 Desciption: Geographical ecology emphasizing plant distributions, abiotic-biotic interactions, effects of disturbance, succession, and human impacts across scales. Labs and field trips examine a local site.
Name: GEOB 270 Credits: 3 Desciption: Computer-based graphical methods of data input and analysis. Emphasis on data visualization techniques such as cartographic modelling and exploratory data analysis. Preclusion: Not available to those who completed GEOG 370 before September 2005.
Name: GEOB 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Meteorology and climatology at the micro-, local, and meso-scales. Interactions between land surfaces and atmosphere. Basics of atmospheric turbulence and transfer processes. Microclimates on scales of a leaf to those of a large valley.
Name: GEOB 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of hydrology at site, watershed, and larger regional scales. Introduction to techniques of measurement and analysis. Emphasizes surface water hydrology of western North America.
Name: GEOB 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: Biogeographic concepts in understanding responses in ecosystems to environmental change at global, regional, and local scales. Conservation issues such as the loss of biodiversity and endangered species.
Name: GEOB 309 Credits: 3 Desciption: Field sampling, instrumentation, surveying, mapping techniques, and data analysis; mandatory multi-day field camp in April or May. Special fees and liability insurance are required.
Name: GEOB 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical and practical aspects of Geographic Information Systems, including cartographic modeling, digital terrain models, management issues, and spatial interpolation.
Name: GEOB 372 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cartographic methods: development of cartography; projections; data ordering, compilation and symbolization; cartographic design, map reproduction.
Name: GEOB 373 Credits: 3 Desciption: Aerial photography; measurement from aerial photographs; photo-interpretation in geographic analysis; remote sensing of the earth's surface and atmosphere.
Name: GEOB 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Processes controlling the planetary cycles of elements like carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus, the human perturbation of these biogeochemical cycles, and the consequences for the atmosphere, terrestrial ecosystems, and aquatic ecosystems.
Name: GEOB 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: The nature of atmospheric pollutants. The ability of the atmosphere to disperse, transform, and remove pollutants. Air pollution dispersion models. Air quality monitoring, criteria, and standards.
Name: GEOB 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Hillslope and stream channel processes and their rates of operation. Analysis and modeling geomorphic processes and associated hazards at the watershed scale. Applications in geoscience and engineering.
Name: GEOB 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of vegetation dynamics integrating theory and research to address contemporary issues of global environmental change. Students will conduct fieldwork and learn to analyze data and interpret results.
Name: GEOB 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: For fourth-year students in Geography to permit investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student. Permission of the department head and of a supervisory faculty member is required. Credit will be granted for only one of GEOB 448 or GEOG 448.
Name: GEOB 448B Credits: 4 Desciption: For fourth-year students in Geography to permit investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student. Permission of the department head and of a supervisory faculty member is required. Credit will be granted for only one of GEOB 448 or GEOG 448.
Name: GEOB 449A Credits: 3 Desciption: Original research on an approved topic, developed under the guidance of a faculty member. Open to 4th year students in Geographical Biogeosciences with appropriate background courses related to the research topic, and permission of the directing faculty member. The 3-credit option is only available to students who complete GEOB 449 in tandem with GEOB 409.
Name: GEOB 449B Credits: 6 Desciption: Original research on an approved topic, developed under the guidance of a faculty member. Open to 4th year students in Geographical Biogeosciences with appropriate background courses related to the research topic, and permission of the directing faculty member. The 3-credit option is only available to students who complete GEOB 449 in tandem with GEOB 409.
Name: GEOB 472 Credits: 3 Desciption: Use of cartography in primary research applications. Discussion of contemporary topics in cognitive, social, and technical cartography and data visualization.
Name: GEOB 479 Credits: 3 Desciption: Students use GIS in primary research applications in conservation biology, crime analysis, and health geography; theoretical and practical aspects considered in a hands-on environment.
Name: GEOB 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOB 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOB 503A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOB 504A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOB 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOB 507A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEOB 507B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: GEOB 508A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GENE 549C Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: GENE 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: GEM 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and practices of Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
Name: GEM 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced topics, techniques and functions in Geographic Information Systems.
Name: GEM 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Capturing spatial data and the use of remote sensing systems to map, monitor and better manage forest, vegetation and ecosystem resources.
Name: GEM 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced topics and techniques in remote sensing and image processing.
Name: GEM 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: Understanding geo-spatial data structures, databases and developing, maintaining and utilizing geo-spatial data.
Name: GEM 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: GEM 580 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current events in geomatics applications in environmental management.
Name: GEM 599 Credits: 3 Desciption: Develop, write and present the components of an effective proposal focused on exploring an environmental issue.
Name: GBPR 500 Credits: 6 Desciption: Anatomy, physiology, composition, ultrastructure of the cell wall, molecular organization, and chemistry of forest biomass.
Name: GBPR 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Extraction of soluble compounds and macromolecules. Chemical and technical processes in production of pulp. Bleaching. Fiber production from woody and herbaceous biomass. Production of reactive intermediates.
Name: GBPR 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Understanding technology of deriving biofuels and chemical feedstocks from forest biomass. Relating chemistry of biomass for production of liquid, solid and gaseous fuels. Processing options for value-added chemicals.
Name: FRST 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of forests and forestry.  Survey of the disciplines, areas of study, and values that frame sustainable management of forests in BC and the world.  Assignments focus on critical thinking and written communication skills.
Name: FRST 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: The structure, diversity and development of trees and other plants, with emphasis on the angiosperms.
Name: FRST 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: The structure and function of forest ecosystems, including: energetics; productivity; nutrient, carbon and water cycling; soils; the physical environment; population and community ecology; disturbance ecology; ecological succession; biological diversity and ecological resilience.
Name: FRST 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: The Ecosystem concept; energy biomass and nutrient cycling; the physical environment; population and community ecology; succession, Biogeoclimatic classification and some coastal ecosystems. Available only through Distance Education.
Name: FRST 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: The functional biology of trees and other forest plants in their environment, with an emphasis on gymnosperms.
Name: FRST 211 Credits: 3 Desciption: Forest classification and the application of silvics in forest management, including world forest classification systems, the Biogeoclimactic Ecosystem Classification system, and ecosystem diagnosis in the field.
Name: FRST 231 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic theories of probability and statistics. Sampling distribution, methods of estimation and hypothesis testing; goodness of fit and tests for independence; analysis of variance, regression and correlation. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: FRST 232 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques involved in solving forestry problems with microcomputers using word processing, spreadsheet, procedural language, and database management tools.
Name: FRST 239 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to measurement of individual trees and stands; use of aerial photographs, maps, and various measurement instruments.
Name: FRST 248 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised work experience in an approved organization for a minimum of 15 weeks. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in the Faculty of Forestry. Orientation workshops required. Final work term report required.
Name: FRST 270 Credits: 3 Desciption: Community forests and community forestry throughout the world, with special attention to participation by aboriginal peoples; emphasis is on forms of governance, public participation, and adaptive learning.
Name: FRST 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Population genetics and conservation of genetic resources; principles of genetics and their application to forestry.
Name: FRST 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to growth of trees and forests with emphasis on evolutionary, ecological and environmental aspects. Not available for credit to undergraduate students in the Faculty of Forestry.
Name: FRST 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of current forestry issues with specific reference to their scientific basis. Not available for credit to undergraduate students in the Faculty of Forestry.
Name: FRST 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Silviculture concepts and principles; stand dynamics; artificial and natural regeneration; cultural techniques for forest stand establishment and stand tending; silvicultural systems; decision making and development of prescriptions; connections to forest planning.
Name: FRST 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts of disturbance ecology with special reference to insects and diseases in the forests of British Columbia; forest health problems in the biogeoclamatic zones of BC; present management strategies and future potentials in a scenario of climate change.
Name: FRST 308 Credits: 2 Desciption: An introduction to insects that cause damage to forests and forest products; how insects live; life cycles and attack symptoms of representatives of major groups of insects; principles for control and management. Available only through Distance Education.
Name: FRST 309 Credits: 2 Desciption: Biology and management of forest tree diseases. Available only through Distance Education.
Name: FRST 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: The diversity and interactions of soil organisms (bacteria, protozoa, fungi, animals, plants) in natural and managed ecosystems; roles in primary production, nutrient cycling, decomposition and reclamation; responses to environmental change.
Name: FRST 311 Credits: 4 Desciption: Mechanisms and regulation of functional processes contributing to the assimilation, transport and utilization of water, mineral nutrients and carbon by plants. CHEM 203, CHEM 213, or CHEM 233 and CHEM 235  is recommended.
Name: FRST 318 Credits: 3 Desciption: Practical problem solving of economic issues related to forestry and conservation, touching on investment analysis, capital budgeting, non-timber economics, ecosystem services, and forest certification. Completion of FRST 232 or intermediate knowledge of MS Excel essential.
Name: FRST 319 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the economics of production, distribution and consumption of goods and services produced by, and dependent on, the forest resource. Available only through Distance Education.
Name: FRST 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ecological effects of fire and climatic (wind, temperature, and snow) disturbances; fire danger rating, principles of fire management and prescribed fire use; windthrow risk modeling and management.
Name: FRST 339 Credits: 3 Desciption: Obtaining and forecasting information for stands and forests.
Name: FRST 346 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised work experience in an approved organization for a minimum of 15 weeks. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in the Facutly of Forestry. Final work term report required.
Name: FRST 347 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised work experience in an approved organization for a minimum of 15 weeks. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in the Faculty of Forestry. Final work term report required.
Name: FRST 348 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised work experience in an approved organization for a minimum of 15 weeks. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in the Faculty of Forestry. Final work term report required.
Name: FRST 350 Credits: 2 Desciption: Field study concentrating on outdoor skills, forest measurements, site diagnosis, and an integrated overview of the ecological, social and economic basis for forest management. Fees will be assessed to meet expenses. Credit will be granted for only one of FRST 350 or 351.
Name: FRST 351 Credits: 2 Desciption: Field study at an interior BC location concentrating on land use, management and silviculture. Fees will be assessed to meet expenses. Students with FRST 351 and FRST 350 can only count 2 credits toward their program requirements.
Name: FRST 385 Credits: 3 Desciption: Measurement and analysis of hydrological processes in response to forest management activities.
Name: FRST 386 Credits: 3 Desciption: Effects of forest management activities on fish and aquatic ecosystems.
Name: FRST 395 Credits: 3 Desciption: Biology of important bird and mammal species resident in forested regions, with particular emphasis on the influences of silvicultural and logging practices.
Name: FRST 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures and seminars in research philosophies and the scientific method, with special emphasis on field research.
Name: FRST 408 Credits: 3 Desciption: Decision-making in the protection of forests from insects. Insect problems viewed from other disciplines of forestry. Bases of biological and economic evaluation, and choice of control methods.
Name: FRST 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts of complex adaptive systems (CAS); exploration of how CAS can be used to manage natural and social environments for multiple goals under changing climatic and socio-economic conditions.
Name: FRST 413 Credits: 3 Desciption: The structure, biosynthesis, distribution and biological function of secondary plant metabolites.
Name: FRST 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development, implementation, and analysis of forest policy.
Name: FRST 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the quantitative tools necessary in forest management. Available only through Distance Education.
Name: FRST 424 Credits: 10 Desciption: Integration of biophysical and socio-economic components of forest management.
Name: FRST 430 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of variance, multiple regression and analysis of covariance. Design and analysis of experiments.
Name: FRST 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: Use of molecular genetic tools to investigate ecological  processes in natural population; DNA variation and its application in landscape genetics, phylogeography, behavioural ecology, conservation genetics, and association genetics. Emphasis placed on statistical and computational data analysis.
Name: FRST 439 Credits: 3 Desciption: The socio-economic, biological and technological aspects of forestry within the international frame, in both the developed and developing world. Regional studies and the role of national and international agencies.
Name: FRST 443 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic biological concepts related to interpretation of remote sensing data for land management, including the use of films and filters, and interpretation of air photographs, and other imagery.
Name: FRST 444 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integration of farms and forests, including tropical agroforestry systems, non-timber forest products, forest farming, woodlot management, silvopastoralism, riparian buffers, windbreaks, soil fertility improvement and nutrient cycling.
Name: FRST 446 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised work experience in an approved organization for a minimum of 15 weeks. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in the Faculty of Forestry. Final work term report required.
Name: FRST 447 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised work experience in an approved organization for a minimum of 15 weeks. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in the Faculty of Forestry. Final work term report required.
Name: FRST 448 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised work experience in an approved organization for a minimum of 15 weeks. Restricted to students in the Co-operative Education Program in the Faculty of Forestry. Final work term report required.
Name: FRST 449A Credits: 1 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in forestry.
Name: FRST 449B Credits: 2 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in forestry.
Name: FRST 449C Credits: 3 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in forestry.
Name: FRST 449D Credits: 4 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in forestry.
Name: FRST 449E Credits: 5 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in forestry.
Name: FRST 449F Credits: 6 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry on directed studies of specific problems in forestry.
Name: FRST 452 Credits: 2 Desciption: Site diagnosis and preparation of management options in coastal forests. Extrasessional course; fees will be assessed to meet expenses.
Name: FRST 490 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methodologies for visual analysis, perceptions, planning and management of urban, natural and working landscapes, and implications for sustainable land-use management and community engagement.  Credit will be granted for only one of FRST 490 or FRST 551.
Name: FRST 492 Credits: 3 Desciption: How individuals perceive their environment.  Emphasis will be given visual perception in the context of natural resource issues and the effects of those perceptions on individuals including issues of human wellbeing.
Name: FRST 495 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles, problems, and practices of managing  forests and nature reserves for biological diversity; integration of forestry and wildlife with particular emphasis on diversity of all life forms.
Name: FRST 497 Credits: 2 Desciption: A technical description of a study or a detailed literature review of at least 4,000 words, developed under the guidance of a Faculty member. Available only to students in their graduating year.
Name: FRST 498 Credits: 6 Desciption: An independent study or research project of a subject of special interest to the student under the direction of a staff member. The subject must be appropriate to the student's area of concentration.
Name: FRST 499 Credits: 6 Desciption: An independent study or research project on an approved topic, developed under the guidance of a Faculty member. Available only to students in their graduating year.
Name: FRST 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of purification, cloning, sequencing, restriction-hybridization analysis of plant nucleic acids, in-vitro labeling of plant nucleic acids and proteins, and electrophoresis and immunodetection of plant proteins. Offered by the Biotechnology Teaching Laboratory in cooperation with the Department of Forest and Conservation Sciences. Admission to the course is limited and requires recommendation from the department head.
Name: FRST 507C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interactions between insects and forests; evaluation of current approaches to research in forest entomology; examination of theories and axioms; application of ecological principles in pest management.
Name: FRST 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of current literature on specific topics in forest soil ecology, including bacterial endophytes, microbial diversity, nutrient cycling, and mycorrhizae. Students with either APBI 412 or CONS 412 will not be allowed to take FRST 512.
Name: FRST 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: Growth and development of woody plants; physiological responses to abiotic and biotic environmental factors; consequences of silvicultural practices on physiological processes.
Name: FRST 519 Credits: 3 Desciption: Emphasis on tropical and sub-tropical countries, where the majority of forest-dependent people live.
Name: FRST 522 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 523 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 524 Credits: 3 Desciption: Perceptual processes mediating behaviour in humans, with special attention given to the emotional processing of visual stimuli.
Name: FRST 526C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: Matrix algebra; algebra and inference of multiple linear and multiple curvilinear regressions for solution of problems in forestry and related fields. Non-linear regression. Methods of least squares for analysis of variance and covariance.
Name: FRST 532C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 534 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 537C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 543 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and practice of oral presentations.
Name: FRST 545 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and practice of technical communication necessary for preparation of effective scientific reports, reviews, grant proposals, journal articles and theses.
Name: FRST 546 Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures and seminars in research philosophies and methods with special emphasis on field and applied research.
Name: FRST 547 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 548A Credits: 3 Desciption: For non-thesis master's degree programs.
Name: FRST 548B Credits: 6 Desciption: For non-thesis master's degree programs.
Name: FRST 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 549C Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 550B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 550C Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis, perception, planning of landscapes, and integration of social acceptability with sustainability.  Credit will be granted for only one of FRST 490 or FRST 551.
Name: FRST 553 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 556 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and application of data acquisition and use.
Name: FRST 557 Credits: 6 Desciption: Design and implementation of site-level plans that integrate ecological, social, and economic components: silviculture, forest operations, and forest health.
Name: FRST 558 Credits: 9 Desciption: Preparation of landscape-level sustainable forest management plans that integrate ecological, social, and economic components.
Name: FRST 559 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 560 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 562 Credits: 1 Desciption: Contemporary and emerging issues in international forestry.
Name: FRST 573 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRST 576 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and design of structural wood products, influences of material inhomogeneity and variability; creep and time dependent fracture phenomena; structural performance of wood products such as panel products, lumber, glued laminated timber and I-Beams. Impact of codes on marketing of structural wood products.
Name: FRST 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Grammar, composition, reading and oral practice.  Not available to students with the prerequisite for FREN 102.
Name: FREN 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Grammar, composition, reading and oral practice.  Not available to students with prerequisite for FREN 111.
Name: FREN 111 Credits: 3 Desciption: Not available for credit to students with FREN 12, FREN 112 or equivalent.
Name: FREN 112 Credits: 3 Desciption: Not available for credit to students with FREN 12.
Name: FREN 122 Credits: 3 Desciption: A review of French grammar and an introduction to contemporary literature written in French, with emphasis on essay writing and textual analysis.
Name: FREN 123 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of FREN 122 with emphasis on literature, essay writing and textual analysis.
Name: FREN 124 Credits: 3 Desciption: Task-based entry-level course for non-specialists. Credits from this course may not count towards a Major or Minor in French, nor as prerequisite to subsequent core courses in French.
Name: FREN 215 Credits: 6 Desciption: Opportunities for students already well-grounded in grammar to improve their oral skills. Credit will be granted for only one of FREN 215 or FREN 224 and FREN 225.
Name: FREN 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Students will familiarize themselves with techniques of literary analysis, as applied to representative works from the Middle Ages to the 17th century, including theatre, fiction, poetry and non-fiction prose. To be taken by all students intending to proceed to the Minor, Major or Honours program.
Name: FREN 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: Students will familiarize themselves with techniques of literary analysis, as applied to representative works from the 18th century to the present, including theatre, fiction, poetry and non-fiction prose.  To be taken by all students intending to proceed to the Minor, Major or Honours program.
Name: FREN 222 Credits: 3 Desciption: Grammar, vocabulary, composition, language in context.
Name: FREN 223 Credits: 3 Desciption: Grammar, vocabulary, composition, language in context.
Name: FREN 224 Credits: 3 Desciption: French language for ex-immersion students. Credit will be granted for only one of FREN 215 or FREN 224. Not available for credit to anyone who has received credit for FREN 222.
Name: FREN 225 Credits: 3 Desciption: French language for ex-immersion students. Credit will be granted for only one of FREN 215 or FREN 225. Not available for credit to anyone who has received credit for FREN 223.
Name: FREN 329 Credits: 3 Desciption: Representative works viewed in their historical, social, and cultural contexts.
Name: FREN 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Representative works viewed in their historical, social, and cultural contexts.
Name: FREN 334 Credits: 3 Desciption: A historically based approach to French civilization and culture from the Third Republic to the present, completed by a thematic study of contemporary French culture.
Name: FREN 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and practice of French pronunciation, corrective phonetics; foundation for the phonetic transcription of international French.
Name: FREN 353 Credits: 3 Desciption: Systematic study of the fundamental principles of French grammar.
Name: FREN 355 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of essay writing skills in French.
Name: FREN 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of basic terminology, methods, problems, and theoretical trends in French linguistics, specifically designed to provide students with a foundation for advanced language study in French.
Name: FREN 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of basic terminology, methods, problems, and theoretical trends in French literary criticism, specifically designed to provide students with a foundation for advanced study of literature in French.
Name: FREN 413A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 416A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 418K Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to representative works. Topics include Negritude, the evolution of post-colonial literature, and the socio-historical context of each work.
Name: FREN 420F Credits: 3 Desciption: Course content will vary. May be taken up to 3 times, with different content, for a maximum of 9 credits.
Name: FREN 423A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 495R Credits: 3 Desciption: Research on critical topics related to selected literary works. Limited enrolment: required of honours, but open to majors students in French.
Name: FREN 498B Credits: 3 Desciption: For fourth-year students. Focus on a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student. Permission of the department head and of a supervisory faculty member is required.
Name: FREN 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 502A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 512A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 513A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 521D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 548 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 566B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 599A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 599B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: FREN 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 295 Credits: 3 Desciption: Economic foundations of managerial decision-making. Organization of the firm, demand theory, cost and production, market structure, competitive strategy, welfare-economic foundations of business regulation. Credit may be obtained for only one of ECON 201, ECON 206, ECON 301, ECON 304, FRE 295, COMM 295.
Name: FRE 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Emphasizes the building of a business plan by exploring topics such as the planning process and financing, marketing and human resource concepts, as applied to an agri-food business, domestically and internationally.
Name: FRE 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of global food markets including recent trends (e.g., vertical coordination, strategic alliances, multinationals and small firms in niche markets), marketing and trade institutions such as state-trading enterprises and WTO regulations, issues specific to developing nations, and case studies.
Name: FRE 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Characteristics, processes and sources of economic growth, role of agricultural and resource sectors in economic growth, analysis of output and input markets in those sectors, policy failures, tools for empirical analysis of rural markets, growth, and the environment.
Name: FRE 374 Credits: 3 Desciption: Willingness to pay, opportunity costs, externalities, and market failures in natural resource markets; dynamic efficiency; economic applications including mineral, marine, forest, land, water, and biodiversity.
Name: FRE 385 Credits: 3 Desciption: Spreadsheet modeling and analysis of business and resource management problems: decision analysis, forecasting, linear programming, simulation modeling, and inventory management.
Name: FRE 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Market failure and gains from trade in the presence of natural resource externalities; the multilateral trading system and the environment; case studies in trade-related environmental impacts.
Name: FRE 460 Credits: 3 Desciption: Microeconomics of consumer decisions and public policy in food contexts; foodborne illness; economic causes and consequences of obesity; sin taxes and prohibitions; information campaigns and advertising; labeling; food waste and ethics.
Name: FRE 490 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 505 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of FNH 415, FOOD 515 or FRE 515.
Name: FRE 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 517 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 521C Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 521D Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 522 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 523 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 526 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 527 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 529 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 530 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 541 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: FRE 585 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOPR 264 Credits: 4 Desciption: Geomatics, the physical attributes of forest access and transportation and how they best integrate with the objectives of resource sustainability.
Name: FOPR 362 Credits: 3 Desciption: The mechanics and productivity of a broad range of forest harvesting systems.
Name: FOPR 388 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analytical methods in forest hydrology and their applications in the planning of forest operations with a focus on the hydrologic and hydraulic design procedures for stream crossings.
Name: FOPR 459 Credits: 3 Desciption: A capstone project-based course with applications of engineering economics, contract preparation, and financial planning in the context of Forest Operations.
Name: FOPR 464 Credits: 3 Desciption: A detailed examination of the performance of heavy trucks used in forestry plus highlights of particular aspects of the performance of hydraulic tracked machines and cable logging machines.
Name: FOOD 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: Honours/Pass/Fail.
Name: FOOD 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of FNH 415, FOOD 515 or FRE 515.
Name: FOOD 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 523 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 524 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 525 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 527A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 529 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 530A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 530B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 530C Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 530D Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 531 Credits: 6 Desciption: Honours/Pass/Fail.
Name: FOOD 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 600 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FOOD 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: FNIS 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: The historical, cultural, political, economic and legal issues that inform the experiences of Indigenous peoples in Canada, examined from both Indigenous and non-Indigenous perspectives. Credit will be granted for only one of FNIS 100, FNSP 100, or FNSP 200.
Name: FNIS 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: The cultural, historical, political, economic, and gender dynamics that structure the relationship between Indigenous peoples and the state in Canada; Indigenous self-determination struggles in relation to constitutional recognition, self-government, land claims, and economic development. Credit will be granted for only one of FNSP 200, FNIS 210, or FNSP 210.
Name: FNIS 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Representation, identity, and cultural politics through Indigenous literature, film, and the visual arts; the relationship between these sites of cultural production and the self-determination struggles of Indigenous peoples. Credit will be granted for only one of FNSP 200, FNIS 220, or FNSP 220.
Name: FNIS 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Adapting and integrating current conceptual paradigms in the humanities, social sciences, performing arts, and Indigenous studies into approaches in First Nations/Indigenous Studies, including identity construction, political and cultural self-determination, representation, essentialism/authenticity, ethics, and decolonization. Credit will be granted for only one of FNIS 310 or FNSP 310.
Name: FNIS 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Responsible and community-based research from a critical Indigenous perspective; methods for identifying and assessing research materials, critical analysis, oral history/qualitative research interviewing and analysis, and research ethics in the design and implementation of community-based student research projects. Credit will be granted for only one of FNIS 320 or FNSP 320.
Name: FNIS 400 Credits: 6 Desciption: Applied research/community oriented project designed and implemented in collaboration with student, faculty and Aboriginal community organization. Emphasis on examining ethical issues and developing culturally respectful and academically rigorous forms of research. Credit will be granted for only one of FNIS 400 or FNSP 400.
Name: FNIS 401W Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics will vary from year to year. Consult the departmental website: http://fnsp.arts.ubc.ca.
Name: FNIS 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: The historical, cultural, political, and activist roots of contemporary Indigenous feminisms. Indigenous feminist methodologies, theory, and praxis in relation to contemporary Indigenous politics and social justice movements. Credit will be granted for only one of FNSP 401D, FNIS 451, or FNSP 451.
Name: FNIS 453 Credits: 3 Desciption: Socio-historical, political and cultural context of Indigenous legal traditions and strategies for ethical engagement within state and Indigenous polities. Methods include oral history analysis, legal theory, literary/narrative studies, and philosophy from an Indigenous studies perspective.
Name: FNIS 454 Credits: 3 Desciption: New media and digital storytelling works designed and implemented by Indigenous artists, authors, and programmers.
Name: FNIS 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: Indigenous people's place-based relations, colonial processes of de-territorialization, and spatial negotiations of settler colonialism.
Name: FNIS 501A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FNIS 533D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FNIS 533F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FNIS 533G Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FNIS 533S Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FNIS 533W Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FNH 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Chemical and physical properties of foods; issues pertaining to safety, nutritive value and consumer acceptability; government regulations pertaining to food safety, quality and additives; preservation techniques and transformation of agricultural commodities to food products; foods of the future.
Name: FNH 250 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental concepts and principles of human nutrition applied to current nutrition issues.
Name: FNH 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Units and dimensions, mass balance, energy balance, steady state and transient heat flow, fluid handling and measurement.
Name: FNH 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Constituents of food and related chemical physical properties including water, carbohydrates, proteins, lipids, minerals, and vitamins.
Name: FNH 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of and procedures for analysis of the chemical and physical properties of food; proximate analysis; introduction to instrumental analysis; reporting and analysis of data.
Name: FNH 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to and application of concepts involved in food product formulation and development.
Name: FNH 309 Credits: 3 Desciption: Preservation of tissue and fluid food systems by selected physical and chemical treatments with emphasis on product-process interactions.
Name: FNH 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: Microorganisms of importance in safety, spoilage and preservation of foods; factors affecting growth, survival and inactivation of microorganisms in fermented food systems; food processing plant cleaning and sanitation.
Name: FNH 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integrated laboratory introducing techniques used in food processing and analysis. Enrolment restricted to Food Science students.
Name: FNH 326 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integrated laboratory encompassing the processing and analysis of foods.  Enrolment restricted to Food Science students.
Name: FNH 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of viticulture, enology, and wine microbiology and chemistry; marketing, regulation and classification of wines from selected regions of the world; social, economic and health aspects of wine consumption; wine appreciation.
Name: FNH 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of diverse styles of wine with consideration of classic wine-producing areas. Concepts in wine microbiology/chemistry; overview of steps in grape processing for diverse wine styles. Comparison of regulations for Canadian VQA systems with international systems. Wine sensory analysis.
Name: FNH 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of food preparation based on the physical and chemical properties of food.
Name: FNH 341 Credits: 3 Desciption: Experimental and practical application of scientific principles and theories to problems of food preparation. Note: Course registrants are required to possess a Foodsafe I certificate.
Name: FNH 342 Credits: 3 Desciption: Personal, collective, and policy factors affecting food choices, including perceptions of healthy eating, gender, identity, family structures, and economic, sociocultural, and political forces.
Name: FNH 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamentals of energy and macronutrient metabolism.
Name: FNH 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Vitamin and mineral nutrition and their role in maintaining and promoting health.
Name: FNH 355 Credits: 3 Desciption: Conceptualization and scientific analyses of global problems in food and nutrition; complexities of food habits and malnutrition in various cultures around the world.
Name: FNH 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: The use of dietary, anthropometric, biochemical, and related information for the assessment of nutritional status of individuals and populations.
Name: FNH 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: Nutritional requirements and dietary patterns of healthy individuals throughout the life span.
Name: FNH 380 Credits: 1 Desciption: Introduction to the profession of dietetics in Canada. Restricted to students in the Dietetics Major.
Name: FNH 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Process of research; principles and processes in utilizing research. Restricted to students in majors in the FNH program.
Name: FNH 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Functional food and nutraceutical concepts related to ingredient safety and quality; examples of nutrient-disease relationships, requirements for standards of efficacy for health claims; market determinants of functional food and nutraceutical industries.
Name: FNH 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Canadian and international laws governing food composition, grading, quality and safety; hazard analysis critical control points; statistical quality assurance.
Name: FNH 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fermentation methods, mechanism and microbiology of nonalcoholic fermented foods and alcoholic fermented beverages (beer, cider, sake).
Name: FNH 413 Credits: 3 Desciption: Microbial and chemical factors that underlie public health challenges in the food supply chain; prevalence and nature of organisms which cause foodborne diseases; approaches and technologies for improvement of food safety.
Name: FNH 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to and application of business activities in food, nutrition, and health settings. Credit will only be granted for only one of FNH 415, FOOD 515, or FRE 515.
Name: FNH 425 Credits: 6 Desciption: Integrated course designed to illustrate principles of research and product development in the food industry.
Name: FNH 436 Credits: 3 Desciption: Global transcript, protein and metabolite profiling technologies, their integration, application, and furtherance of our understanding of how higher organisms function in general.
Name: FNH 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Management responsibilities in quantity food production with emphasis on menu planning, purchasing and service. Includes planning and equipping food services. Restricted to students in the Dietetics major. Note: Course registrants are required to possess a Foodsafe II certificate.
Name: FNH 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integration of nutrient and energy metabolism on a whole-body and individual tissue basis and the implication for health. Emphasis will be on regulation of nutrient metabolism.
Name: FNH 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: Applying nutrition concepts and principles in addressing problems of malnutrition and food insecurity in international settings.  Basics of developing culturally acceptable, sustainable nutrition intervention programs.
Name: FNH 470 Credits: 3 Desciption: Etiology and pathophysiology of and nutrition therapy for selected diseases and conditions, and skill development related to the Nutrition Care Process. Restricted to students in year 4 of the Dietetics Major.
Name: FNH 472 Credits: 3 Desciption: Metabolic adaptations, nutrient metabolism, and special issues during pregnancy that may influence the maternal-fetal nutritional supply.
Name: FNH 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and methods in public health nutrition and health promotion program planning to assess, plan, implement, and evaluate nutrition-related programs for communities and populations. Considers factors affecting behavior and the social determinants of health.
Name: FNH 474 Credits: 3 Desciption: Nutritional needs of athletes, including energy, carbohydrate and protein; hydration; pre-and post-event nutrition, weight management and body composition issues; ergogenic aids; sports-specific guidelines; and special athlete populations.
Name: FNH 475 Credits: 3 Desciption: Etiology and pathophysiology of and nutrition therapy for additional diseases and conditions, and further skill development related to the Nutrition Care Process. Restricted to students in year 4 of the Dietetics Major.
Name: FNH 477 Credits: 3 Desciption: Evidence-based examination of the role of nutrition in the prevention of chronic disease.
Name: FNH 480 Credits: 3 Desciption: Themes include practice-based research, clinical practice readiness, and orientation to internship.
Name: FNH 481 Credits: 9 Desciption: Full-time internship placements within British Columbia health authorities. Pass/Fail.
Name: FNH 482 Credits: 9 Desciption: Full-time internship placements within British Columbia health authorities. Pass/Fail.
Name: FNH 497A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: FNH 497B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FNH 497E Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: FNH 499 Credits: 6 Desciption: Design and execution of an experimental/analytical research project leading to preparation of a thesis.
Name: FNEL 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Emphasis on accurate pronunciation, conversation, basic grammatical structures and listening and literacy skills, and the study of oral traditions in their cultural context. No prior knowledge of the language is assumed.
Name: FNEL 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continued focus on the diverse range of language learning skills that advance competency in conversational fluency, pronunciation, comprehension, vocabulary, oral traditions, literacy, grammatical understanding, and the cultural contextualization of language use.
Name: FNEL 141 Credits: 3 Desciption: Emphasis on accurate pronunciation, conversation, basic grammatical structures, listening and literacy skills, and the study of oral traditions in their cultural context. No prior knowledge of the language is assumed. Not offered every year.
Name: FNEL 142 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continued focus on the diverse range of language learning skills that advance competency in conversational fluency, pronunciation, comprehension, vocabulary, oral traditions, literacy, grammatical understanding, and the cultural contextualization of language use. Not offered every year.
Name: FNEL 180 Credits: 3 Desciption: Foundational concepts in the critical study of cultural, historical, social, and political factors that impact language loss, retention, and revival. Introducing strategies and practical methodologies for collaborative, interdisciplinary, community-based documentation and revitalization projects for First Nations and Indigenous languages.
Name: FNEL 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Emphasis on increasing fluency in conversational ability, enhancing pronunciation and comprehension skills, expanding vocabulary, extending literacy and grammatical understanding, and further study of oral traditions in their cultural context.
Name: FNEL 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continued focus on the diverse range of language learning skills that advance competency in conversational fluency, pronunciation, comprehension, vocabulary, oral traditions, literacy, grammatical understanding, and the cultural contextualization of language use.
Name: FNEL 281 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of skills in the perception and transcription of speech sounds in endangered languages, focusing on the diversity within BC Aboriginal languages. Capacity-building techniques for digital recording, editing, analysis, and archiving; guided by community-based ethical protocols and conservation/revitalization goals.
Name: FNEL 380 Credits: 3 Desciption: Digital tools for endangered language documentation, conservation, and revitalization. Overview of best practices, introduction to community engagement and capacity-building, protocols and ethics, project design, cultural context, orthographies, use of audio, video and still photography, data management, archiving and web publishing.
Name: FNEL 381 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical exploration of the links between linguistic, biological and cultural diversity; including connections with linguistic relativity, linguistic identity, language and place; and strategies for collective, interdisciplinary action to promote and support the protection of languages, cultures, and the environment.
Name: FNEL 448K Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised by a faculty member.
Name: FNEL 448M Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised by a faculty member.
Name: FNEL 480C Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical study of the historical, social, cultural, political, and economic factors impacting on language loss, retention, and revival. Research on and application of methodologies for collaborative, trans-disciplinary, community-based documentation and revitalization of BC's Indigenous linguistic heritage.
Name: FNEL 482 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of research skills and methodologies in the design and implementation of a research project relevant to endangered language conservation and/or revitalization. Project co-constructed in collaboration with a First Nations community, guided by community-based ethical protocols. FNEL 481 recommended.
Name: FNEL 482H Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of research skills and methodologies in the design and implementation of a research project relevant to endangered language conservation and/or revitalization. Project co-constructed in collaboration with a First Nations community, guided by community-based ethical protocols. FNEL 481 recommended.
Name: FNEL 483 Credits: 3 Desciption: Genetic affiliation, areal contact, typological diversity, and initiatives to sustain the vitality and diversity of BC First Nations Languages.
Name: FMST 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: The influence of family dynamics and social conditions on human development.
Name: FMST 238 Credits: 3 Desciption: Conceptual models of resource management as related to families.
Name: FMST 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Parent-child interaction over the life span.
Name: FMST 314 Credits: 3 Desciption: The study of the development, course, and decline of personal relationships.
Name: FMST 316 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of human sexual development and behaviour.
Name: FIST 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic aesthetic, economic, sociological, and technological aspects of film.
Name: FIST 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: History and aesthetics of Canadian cinema.
Name: FIST 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: Aesthetics, economics, history, and technological characteristics of international early film.
Name: FIST 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of the aesthetics, economics, history and technological characteristics of the Classical Hollywood period.
Name: FIST 230 Credits: 3 Desciption: Overview of the cinemas of China, India, Japan, and Korea.
Name: FIST 240 Credits: 3 Desciption: Overview of today's film and media industries, and of the concepts governing their practices.
Name: FIST 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Overview of world cult cinema.
Name: FIST 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar introducing the many theoretical approaches to film: formalist, historical, Marxist, psychoanalytic, semiotic, and structuralist.
Name: FIST 334 Credits: 3 Desciption: An analysis of the representational strategies and ethics of the form.
Name: FIST 336 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics may include a study of a European national cinema.
Name: FIST 338 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics may include an analysis of a national cinema, such as that of China, India, or Australia.
Name: FIST 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Overview of approaches for studying audiences and receptions of film and contemporary media.
Name: FIST 430A Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar examining the work of one or more directors, such as John Ford, Francois Truffaut, Denys Arcand, Margarethe Von Trotta, or of a screenwriter over many films.
Name: FIST 434A Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar devoted to a topic of current interest in film. Topic will change from year to year. May be repeated for credit when topics differ.
Name: FIST 434B Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar devoted to a topic of current interest in film. Topic will change from year to year. May be repeated for credit when topics differ.
Name: FIST 434D Credits: 3 Desciption: A seminar devoted to a topic of current interest in film. Topic will change from year to year. May be repeated for credit when topics differ.
Name: FIST 436 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics may include an analysis of a specific period.
Name: FIST 445 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FIST 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: A course allowing honours students to work with a faculty member on a major research paper.
Name: FIST 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current trends and topics in scholarship, based on an intensive look at a few key theorists and theories.
Name: FIST 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Film and media criticism, with detailed interrogation of conceptual foundations and contemporary case-studies.
Name: FIST 534B Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics to be arranged.
Name: FIST 547A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FIST 547B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: FIST 549A Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: FIST 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: FISH 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FISH 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FISH 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FISH 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FISH 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FISH 520 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: FISH 599 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: FISH 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: FIPR 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history of film and film production by decade with a strong emphasis on filmmakers and advances in production technology.
Name: FIPR 131 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental techniques used to create emotionally engaged and narratively effective performances for film and digital media.
Name: FIPR 133 Credits: 3 Desciption: A hands-on introduction to Film and Multi/New Media production, focusing on fundamental techniques for creating effective presentations.
Name: FIPR 230 Credits: 3 Desciption: The role and methods of the motion picture director.
Name: FIPR 233 Credits: 3 Desciption: Camera operation, lighting, sounds, and editing for film and media production.
Name: FIPR 234 Credits: 3 Desciption: Planning of film productions from concept to completion.
Name: FIPR 299A Credits: 3 Desciption: On-campus film production field research. Based on film project work on campus productions. Restricted to Film Production students except with permission. Contact department.
Name: FIPR 299B Credits: 3 Desciption: On-campus film production field research. Based on film project work on campus productions. Restricted to Film Production students except with permission. Contact department.
Name: FIPR 299C Credits: 3 Desciption: On-campus film production field research. Based on film project work on campus productions. Restricted to Film Production students except with permission. Contact department.
Name: FIPR 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FIPR 333 Credits: 9 Desciption: Intermediate film and media production. Open only to students in the Film Production BFA Program. Students who have not already completed FIPR 337, FIPR 338 must complete them at the same time as FIPR 333.
Name: FIPR 337 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introductory cinematography and lighting techniques and aesthetics for 16mm film and digital media.
Name: FIPR 338 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the technique and aesthetics of creating production and post-production sound for film and media.
Name: FIPR 339 Credits: 3 Desciption: Open only to students in the Film Production BFA Program.
Name: FIPR 399A Credits: 3 Desciption: Off-campus film production field research. Based on film project work outside the university.
Name: FIPR 399B Credits: 3 Desciption: Off-campus film production field research. Based on film project work outside the university.
Name: FIPR 399C Credits: 6 Desciption: Off-campus film production field research. Based on film project work outside the university.
Name: FIPR 433 Credits: 9 Desciption: Advanced film and media production.
Name: FIPR 434 Credits: 3 Desciption: The creative and business aspects of producing for film and television.
Name: FIPR 436A Credits: 3 Desciption: Documentary concept development, essential production techniques, and marketing.
Name: FIPR 436B Credits: 3 Desciption: Documentary concept development, essential production techniques, and marketing.
Name: FIPR 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced camera operation, lighting, and shot design. Open only to students in the FILM BFA Program.
Name: FIPR 439 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced instruction in motion picture and sound editing practice. Open only to students in FILM BFA Production Program.
Name: FIPR 469A Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced film production, including interdisciplinary projects.
Name: FIPR 469E Credits: 6 Desciption: Advanced film production, including interdisciplinary projects.
Name: FIPR 469F Credits: 6 Desciption: Advanced film production, including interdisciplinary projects.
Name: FIPR 469G Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced film production, including interdisciplinary projects.
Name: FIPR 469H Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced film production, including interdisciplinary projects.
Name: FIPR 534A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FIPR 536A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FIPR 536B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FIPR 547A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FIPR 547B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: FIPR 549A Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: FIPR 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: FIPR 549C Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: EXGR 560 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EXCH 101 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EXCH 370 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EXCH 371 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EXCH 372 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EXCH 373 Credits: 0 Desciption: For B.A.Sc. students on exchange.
Name: EXCH 375 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EXCH 380 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EXCH 381 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EXCH 580 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EXCH 581 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EXCH 582 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 532 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 533 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 565A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 565G Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 565M Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ETEC 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Identification and appraisal of developmental and educational needs of highly able learners.
Name: EPSE 308 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 310A Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 310B Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 311 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of all groups of exceptional children in terms of definition, incidence, characteristics, diagnosis and treatment. Prerequisite to most other courses in Special Education. Can be taken concurrently with several other introductory courses in Special Education.
Name: EPSE 316 Credits: 3 Desciption: Identification, assessment and needs of children with learning disabilities.
Name: EPSE 317 Credits: 3 Desciption: The teacher's role in dealing with major developmental and special educational issues and problems within the regular classroom program, including working with supportive services, parents, and communities. Designated sections will focus on early childhood, middle childhood or adolescence. Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Inclusion issues of students with visual impairments in general education classrooms; information about visual impairment, classroom adaptations and accommodations, and application of Universal Design. Appropriate for education majors and classroom teachers.
Name: EPSE 348 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 390A Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of innovative practices, ideas, and theories in special education. The specific topics may change yearly to reflect changing priorities and interests in special education, and the specific interest and competencies of visiting and regular faculty.
Name: EPSE 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 408 Credits: 3 Desciption: Planning elementary and secondary level programs for highly able learners.
Name: EPSE 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories of learning and instruction; principles and practices of diagnosis and assessment as these relate to students with relevant special needs.
Name: EPSE 431 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods and programs for learning disabilities are reviewed. Practical experience in the development and execution of a remedial program is required.
Name: EPSE 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 436 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 449 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: The nature of scientific study and essentials of survey, experimental and other empirical research designs. Designed for students proceeding to graduate work.
Name: EPSE 482 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic concepts and principles of descriptive and inferential statistics. Designed for students proceeding to graduate work involving quantitative methodology.
Name: EPSE 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 515A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 519 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 524C Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 525 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 534 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 536 Credits: 3 Desciption: Online course.
Name: EPSE 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 545 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 546 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of EPSE 415 or EPSE 546.
Name: EPSE 549 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 551A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 552A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 553 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical foundations and issues concerning the nature, measurement, and understanding of cognitive abilities of children and youth.
Name: EPSE 554 Credits: 3 Desciption: Administration, scoring, and interpretation of measures of cognitive ability for children and youth.
Name: EPSE 561F Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 565B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 565I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 565R Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 565T Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 568 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 569 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 574 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 575 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 576 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 577 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 580A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 580D Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 584 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 585 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 589A Credits: 6 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 592 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 593 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 595 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 596 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 597 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 598A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 598B Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 598C Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 599A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 604B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 606 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 683 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 684 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EPSE 687A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail
Name: EPSE 687B Credits: 6 Desciption: Pass/Fail
Name: EPSE 687C Credits: 6 Desciption: Pass/Fail
Name: EPSE 688A Credits: 3 Desciption: Instruction and practice in the supervision of school psychology.
Name: EPSE 689A Credits: 6 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EPSE 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EOSC 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: Earth's origin, composition, structure, and natural resources. Plate tectonics as the driving force for volcanism, mountain building, and earthquakes.  Imaging Earth's interior. Environmental geoscience and sustainability. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list for the Faculty of Science section of  the Calendar.)
Name: EOSC 111 Credits: 1 Desciption: An examination of the processes that shape and change the planet earth.  This laboratory course accompanies any of EOSC 110, EOSC 112, EOSC 114, EOSC 116.  Course content is customizable at the individual student level.
Name: EOSC 112 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to processes in ocean and atmosphere. Heat, current, winds, clouds, marine life, resources. Effects of coupling, climate change, pollution. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list, within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar.)
Name: EOSC 114 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to causes and physical characteristics of disasters such as volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, storm surge, thunderstorms, tornadoes, landslides, wind waves, meteor impacts, mass extinctions.
Name: EOSC 116 Credits: 3 Desciption: Earth's tectonics, climate, and oceans during the time of the dinosaurs.  Reading the fossil record of Earth from its earliest origins up to and including the Mesozoic, 250 - 65 million years ago.
Name: EOSC 118 Credits: 3 Desciption: Origin, properties, valuation, prospecting and geology of gold, platinum, silver, diamonds, rubies, emeralds, and other precious metals and gems.
Name: EOSC 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: Focus on the interaction between society and the geologic environment.  Locating, assessing and developing natural resources; understanding and preparing for natural hazards, design of structures and waste disposal sites.  For applied science and forestry students only.
Name: EOSC 211 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mathematical computer-based problem solving in the physical, chemical, and biological sciences. Problems drawn from studies of the earth, the oceans and the atmosphere. Credit will be granted for only one of APSC 160, CPSC 301, or EOSC 211.
Name: EOSC 212 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cutting edge problems in earth, ocean, atmospheric and planetary sciences.  Topics will be introduced through discussions of the current literature.
Name: EOSC 213 Credits: 3 Desciption: Combining basic physical principles with their mathematical description and generating computational models that describe them. Introduction to basic building blocks in modeling, simulation and parameter estimation.
Name: EOSC 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to crystallography, physical and chemical properties of minerals. Recognition and identification of common minerals. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: EOSC 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: Optical mineralogy and the classification and genesis of igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks.
Name: EOSC 222 Credits: 3 Desciption: Measuring geological time and understanding Earth history using stratigraphic principles, paleontology and radioactive decay. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: EOSC 223 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the techniques of geological mapping and the interpretation of field data. Includes three one-day field trips on weekends plus a seven-day field school after Spring examinations. A fee is to be paid by January 31.
Name: EOSC 240 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and practice of site investigation for geological engineers, including background studies, field work, remote sensing, development of ground models, importance of geological variability and uncertainty. Impacts on design, project risk and decision making.
Name: EOSC 250 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of classical theory of scalar and vector fields to geophysical sciences. Conductive, convective and radiative energy flux, gravitation, electrostatics, and magnetostatics. Gauss' and Stokes' theorems.
Name: EOSC 270 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to diversity of marine habitats and ecosystems; hydrothermal vent, intertidal, coral reef, estuarine, deep sea, and polar ecosystems; impacts of ecosystem change; evolution of ocean plankton; invasive species; climate change; pollution.
Name: EOSC 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: The Earth as a planet: its composition, internal dynamics, and surface evolution. Rotation, magnetic field, plate tectonics, earthquakes, volcanoes. The ocean, atmosphere, and biosphere as components of a varying geo-environment. Not for credit in the Faculties of Science and Applied Science. No background in science or mathematics is required. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: EOSC 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the Earth with emphasis on its industrial and aesthetic resources. Rocks, minerals, gold, diamonds, sediments, fossils, oil and gas, canyons, and volcanoes and the processes that create them. Not for credit in the Faculties of Science and Applied Science. No background in Science or Mathematics is required.
Name: EOSC 314 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the oceans and the processes that have shaped them, their composition and movement, waves, tides, beaches, interactions with the atmosphere and human exploitation of the non-living resources. Not for credit in the Faculties of Science or Applied Science. No background in Science or Mathematics is required.
Name: EOSC 315 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to life in the oceans, its variety and evolution; primary producers and their links to the environment, zooplankton, marine communities, living marine resources and their role in today's world. Not for credit in the Faculties of Science or Applied Science.
Name: EOSC 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Origin, diagenesis and geochemistry of sediments and sedimentary rocks.
Name: EOSC 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: The origin and formation of igneous rocks.
Name: EOSC 322 Credits: 3 Desciption: Deciphering lithospheric processes as recorded by the mineralogy, chemistry and textures of metamorphosed rocks.
Name: EOSC 323 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and interpretation of natural deformation.
Name: EOSC 326 Credits: 3 Desciption: The fossil record of adaptation and extinction emphasizing the interaction of biological and geological processes. Not for credit in any Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences specialization. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: EOSC 328 Credits: 3 Desciption: Recording and processing geological data in the field. Held within the three weeks following April examinations after third year. A special fee is to be paid by January 31.
Name: EOSC 329 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to theory of groundwater flow; flow nets; regional groundwater resource evaluation; well hydraulics; role of groundwater in geologic processes.
Name: EOSC 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Landform development; morphological and historical analysis of landforms; applications in engineering and resource development. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: EOSC 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to economic geology and models related to mineral exploration. Study includes typical deposit types and their plate tectonic setting.
Name: EOSC 332 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of the geology and tectonic evolution of North America; comparisons and contrasts between Precambrian rocks of the North American craton and Phanerozoic belts of the Cordilleran, Appalachian, Ouachita and Innuitian orogens;  interrelations between sedimentation, deformation, metamorphism and magmatism in a plate tectonic context.
Name: EOSC 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analytical methods in geochemistry, major and trace element geochemistry, radiogenic isotopes, geochemistry of seawater, the mantle, basalts, subduction zones, sedimentary rocks, continental crust.
Name: EOSC 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mechanisms and processes of past and future global environmental and climate change.
Name: EOSC 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of geophysical survey design, data acquisition, processing and interpretation with emphasis on near-surface problems. Magnetic, seismic reflection/refraction, electromagnetic and ground penetrating radar surveys. Case history analysis of environmental and geotechnical problems.
Name: EOSC 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to tensor calculus and continuum mechanics. Stress, strain and strain-rate tensors. Mass, momentum and energy balance. Applications to problems of geophysical heat transport, elasticity and fluid dynamics illustrated using MATLAB.
Name: EOSC 353 Credits: 3 Desciption: Hooke's law for isotropic continua, elastic wave equation, reflection and refraction methods for imaging the Earth's internal structure, plane waves in an infinite medium and interaction with boundaries, body wave seismology, inversion of travel-time curves, generalized ray theory, crustal seismology, surface waves and earthquake source studies.
Name: EOSC 354 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuous and discrete Fourier transforms, correlation and convolution, spectral estimates, optimum least-squares filters, deconvolution and prediction, frequency-wave number filtering. A practical course on computer techniques applied to the analysis of a wide range of geophysical phenomena.
Name: EOSC 372 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical and chemical processes and their controls on the distribution of plankton in the ocean.
Name: EOSC 373 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical, chemical, and biological processes in the ocean and their interaction with climate and marine food-webs.
Name: EOSC 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial, university or government setting for a minimum of 14 weeks. Normally taken in the Summer Session (Terms 1 and 2) following second year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Option in Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences.
Name: EOSC 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial, university or government setting for a minimum of 14 weeks. Normally taken in Winter Session (Term 1) in third year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Option in Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences.
Name: EOSC 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Field and lab-based studies in volcanology concentrating on physical and chemical aspects of volcanic processes.
Name: EOSC 422 Credits: 3 Desciption: Studies of natural deformation using advanced techniques.
Name: EOSC 424 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced concepts in the processes that lead to the formation of mineral deposits. Introduction to the study of ore minerals using reflected light microscopy.
Name: EOSC 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: Paleobiogeography in the context of plate tectonics. Mass extinction events. Fossilization and biases in the fossil record. Species concepts in paleontology. Biostratigraphy. Paleontological evidence for early life; the colonization of oceanic and terrestrial environments and; the evolution of the primates.
Name: EOSC 428 Credits: 3 Desciption: Hydraulic head measurements, water-quality sampling, pump and slug testing, infiltration measurements, profiling techniques. Held over five days after spring term at the Richmond groundwater hydrology field-school site. Enrolment limitations.
Name: EOSC 429 Credits: 3 Desciption: Contaminant transport processes in groundwater flow systems; aqueous and multiphase transport; mathematical models describing migration and chemical evolution of contaminant plumes; case studies.
Name: EOSC 430 Credits: 3 Desciption: Quantitative approaches to practical aqueous geochemistry problems. Equilibrium thermodynamics, kinetics, complexation, oxidation reduction, cation exchange, sorption and partitioning of organics. Case Studies.
Name: EOSC 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of rock mechanics, hydrogeology, and engineering design tools in realistically complex geological environments. Influence and treatment of geological uncertainty, and use of field data, geotechnical monitoring, and numerical analyses for tunnelling, mining and rock slope engineering projects. Case histories.
Name: EOSC 434 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of geomorphology, hydrogeology, and soil mechanics to geotechnical design. Influence and treatment of geological uncertainty in geotechnical hazard and risk assessments; multi-disciplinary approaches to geotechnical engineering problems in realistically complex geological environments. Case histories.
Name: EOSC 442 Credits: 1 Desciption: Local climate time series collection and analysis. Retrieval and analysis of on-line climate data and model output.
Name: EOSC 445 Credits: 6 Desciption: Geological engineering design project from scope definition to final design.  Based on a problem from industry.
Name: EOSC 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student. Permission of an undergraduate advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required before registration.
Name: EOSC 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student. Permission of an undergraduate advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required before registration.
Name: EOSC 448C Credits: 6 Desciption: Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student. Permission of an undergraduate advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required before registration.
Name: EOSC 448D Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student. Permission of an undergraduate advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required before registration.
Name: EOSC 448E Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student. Permission of an undergraduate advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required before registration.
Name: EOSC 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: Original research work under the direction of a faculty member. Required of all honours students. Open to major students with a satisfactory standing, appropriate background courses and permission of the course instructor and the directing faculty member.
Name: EOSC 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory, application and quantitative interpretation of potential field methods in Earth and planetary sciences. Topics drawn from problems in geophysical exploration, geodesy, geodynamics of the planets, geomagnetism, planetary magnetic fields, heat flow and fluid flow.
Name: EOSC 453 Credits: 3 Desciption: Identification and quantitative analysis of diverse physical problems in the earth, ocean, atmospheric, and planetary sciences.
Name: EOSC 454 Credits: 4 Desciption: Using geophysics to characterize the Earth's subsurface for resource exploration, engineering, or environmental applications. Data acquisition, processing, and interpretation of geophysical surveys. Inversion examples drawn from potential (electrical, magnetic, gravity) or wave field (seismic, ground penetrating radar) surveys.
Name: EOSC 470 Credits: 3 Desciption: A quantitative examination of processes regulating the abundance, distribution and production of phytoplankton, zooplankton, microbes and fish. Controls of primary and secondary production, ecosystem dynamics and foodwebs.
Name: EOSC 471 Credits: 3 Desciption: Use of observations, theory and model results to solve physical oceanographic problems including applications to transport and mixing of pollutants or nutrients.
Name: EOSC 472 Credits: 3 Desciption: Controls on chemical composition and elemental distributions in seawater and marine sediments (including nutrient elements, dissolved gases, the carbonate system, marine organic matter, and trace metals); solution chemistry of seawater; isotopic tracers of rates and dates in marine systems; geochemical balance in the oceans.
Name: EOSC 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods of data acquisition, study and analysis required in solving oceanographic problems. Includes a field school held during the mid-term break. A fee is to be paid by January 31. Open to third- and fourth-year students in Oceanography, or with permission of the Department Head.
Name: EOSC 474 Credits: 3 Desciption: An interdisciplinary study of pollution, with examples drawn from coastal and oceanic environments, including areas of local interest. Intended for third and fourth year students with a background in the sciences.
Name: EOSC 475 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced biology, ecology and diversity of marine microbes. Emphasis on the roles of bacteria and viruses in marine foodwebs and geochemical cycles.
Name: EOSC 478 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the ecology and management of freshwater and marine fisheries. Topics include: population dynamics, species interactions, communities, environmental influences, stock assessment, economics and sociology of fisheries. Laboratories will consist of numerical analyses and simulations.
Name: EOSC 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial, university of government setting for a minimum of 14 weeks. Normally taken in the Summer Session (Terms 1 and 2) following third year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Option in Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences.
Name: EOSC 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial, university or government setting for a minimum of 14 weeks. Normally taken in the Summer Session (Terms 1 and 2) following fourth year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Option in Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences.
Name: EOSC 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: This course is Web-based. Credit will not be granted for both ATSC 409 and ATSC 506/EOSC 511.
Name: EOSC 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 515 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 516 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Crystal structure, chemistry, origin and paragenesis of major rock-forming and ore minerals.
Name: EOSC 523 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures and laboratory problems.
Name: EOSC 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 532 Credits: 3 Desciption: Hydraulic head measurements, water-quality sampling, pump and slug testing, infiltration measurements, profiling techniques. Computer analysis of field data. Held after spring term at the Richmond groundwater hydrology field site. Enrolment limitations.
Name: EOSC 533 Credits: 3 Desciption: Finite-difference models of steady-state and transient groundwater flow in the saturated and unsaturated zones; applications to regional groundwater flow, groundwater recharge, subsurface contributions to streamflow, and aquifer evaluation.
Name: EOSC 534 Credits: 3 Desciption: Consult the credit exclusion list in the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.  http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414#4978
Name: EOSC 536 Credits: 3 Desciption: Consult the credit exclusion list in the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.  http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414#4978
Name: EOSC 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 546 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 548A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 548B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: Model construction, appraisal of nonuniqueness, and inference in linear problems. Tomographic inversions.
Name: EOSC 554B Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures and seminars on theoretical aspects of glacier mechanics; flow, stress and temperature fields, sliding theory, flow instabilities.
Name: EOSC 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 573 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 575 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 579 Credits: 1 Desciption: Consult the Credit Exclusion List in the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.
Name: EOSC 584B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 595A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 595B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 595C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 595D Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 595E Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 595G Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 595H Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 595S Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 598 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: For M.A.Sc.
Name: EOSC 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: EOSC 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: For Ph.D. (Engineering).
Name: ENVR 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminars and field trips introducing the major global, regional, and local environmental issues facing human societies.
Name: ENVR 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Environmental research.  Students investigate research methodologies and reporting in a range of scientific disciplines and fields.
Name: ENVR 400 Credits: 6 Desciption: Instructor-guided collaboration between student teams and community partners on community-based environmental science projects. Teams articulate project questions and goals, devise methods, conduct research and communicate results. Credit will be given for only one of ENVR 400 or ENVR 449.
Name: ENVR 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of water resources from a water-in-ecosystem perspective. Application to natural, managed, and urban systems, considering ecological interactions with hydrological processes. Exploration of biogeochemical processes related to water quality, and human impacts on water resources.
Name: ENVR 430 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current issues. Application to agricultural, energy, and resource systems in terrestrial and aquatic contexts. Analysis of complex problems; incorporation of science into novel interdisciplinary solutions.
Name: ENVR 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sustainability analysis through a series of case studies. Example approaches include cost-benefit analysis, trade-offs analysis, and life-cycle analysis. Active learning in a computer lab using real-world data.
Name: ENVR 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student.  Permission of an ENSC advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required prior to registration.
Name: ENVR 448B Credits: 6 Desciption: Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student.  Permission of an ENSC advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required prior to registration.
Name: ENVR 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ENPH 259 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic experimental techniques in acquisition, analysis, and presentation and communication of data and technical results.
Name: ENPH 352 Credits: 2 Desciption: Some of the experiments will be based on the lecture material for PHYS 301. Other techniques and subjects will also be covered.
Name: ENPH 459 Credits: 5 Desciption: Project planning, management and reporting. This course involves writing a project proposal, carrying out an open-ended Engineering project, and reporting the results both orally and in writing.
Name: ENPH 479 Credits: 4 Desciption: Projects designed to give students research development and design experience. Projects are provided by research faculty in Science and Engineering and from local industry.
Name: ENPH 480 Credits: 3 Desciption: An optional course for those students wishing to continue their project work beyond the development in ENPH 479.
Name: ENPH 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: A project course for students pursuing entrepreneurial training within Engineering Physics, and wishing to further develop projects resulting from ENPH 459.
Name: ENGL 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: A writing-intensive introduction to the disciplines of literary studies through the exploration of texts in their critical and theoretical contexts. Fulfils the first-year component of the Faculty of Arts Writing and Research Requirement. Open only to students in the Faculty of Arts. Recommended for students intending to become English majors. Essays are required.
Name: ENGL 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of selected examples of poetry, fiction, and drama. Essays are required.
Name: ENGL 111 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of a selection of prose texts ranging in length from the essay to the book, with emphasis on writing of the twentieth century. Essays are required.
Name: ENGL 112 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study and practice of the principles of university-level discourse, with multidisciplinary readings and emphasis on processes of research-based writing.  Essays are required. This course is not available for students in the Faculty of Arts.
Name: ENGL 120 Credits: 3 Desciption: Enriched study of selected works of literature from a number of critical perspectives. Open to students with a BC-equivalent mark of "A" (86%) in English 12 or "B+" (80%) in English Literature 12. Essays are required.
Name: ENGL 140 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical consideration of a broad range of commonly held beliefs about language and its relation to the brain and cognition, learning, society, change and evolution. Note: This is an elective course that does not fulfill writing requirements in any faculty or the literature requirement in the Faculty of Arts.
Name: ENGL 210 Credits: 6 Desciption: For Honours students accepted by the English Honours Committee on the recommendation of the instructor. Students permitted to take this course must take ENGL 211 concurrently.
Name: ENGL 211 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to practical criticism; required of and open only to students of ENGL 210. A limited number of texts from a range of genres and periods will be chosen for close critical analysis.
Name: ENGL 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of prose, poetry and drama to the 18th Century.
Name: ENGL 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of poetry, drama, fiction and non-fiction prose from the 18th century to the present.
Name: ENGL 222 Credits: 3 Desciption: The major types of Canadian writing: fiction, poetry, non-fictional prose, and drama
Name: ENGL 223 Credits: 3 Desciption: The major types of American writing: fiction, poetry, drama and non-fictional prose.
Name: ENGL 224 Credits: 3 Desciption: English literature produced outside Britain and North America.
Name: ENGL 225 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles, methods, and resources for reading poetry.
Name: ENGL 226 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles, methods and resources for reading drama.
Name: ENGL 227 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles, methods and resources for reading the novel and the short story.
Name: ENGL 229A Credits: 3 Desciption: For an up to date listing of available topics, please see the English Department (http://english.ubc.ca/undergraduate/undergraduate-courses/2016-winter-session/ ).
Name: ENGL 229B Credits: 3 Desciption: For an up to date listing of available topics, please see the English Department (http://english.ubc.ca/undergraduate/undergraduate-courses/2016-winter-session/ ).
Name: ENGL 231 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of cultural expression in contemporary indigenous contexts.
Name: ENGL 232 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approaches to the study of media: philosophical; technological; cultural; theoretical.
Name: ENGL 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of the principles of written communication in general business and professional activities, and practice in the preparation of abstracts, proposals, reports, and correspondence. This course is closed to first- and second-year students in Arts.  Not for credit towards the English Major or Minor.
Name: ENGL 304A Credits: 3 Desciption: Special emphasis on rhetoric, with a focus on audience, authorial voice, and range of style.
Name: ENGL 307A Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics in rhetorical theories and their application.
Name: ENGL 309 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploration of the persuasive dimension of discourse practices in science, technology, and medicine.
Name: ENGL 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to classical rhetoric with attention to the analysis of present-day texts.
Name: ENGL 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Rhetorical theory from Augustine to the 21st century, emphasizing questions of persuasion in everyday life.
Name: ENGL 312A Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to theories of language and culture, and to techniques for analysing discourses in their social contexts.
Name: ENGL 318 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of language change and language typology. The development of the English language from its Indo-European origins to the end of the Anglo-Saxon period.
Name: ENGL 319 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of language change. The development and spread of the English language from the Norman Conquest to the Modern English period.
Name: ENGL 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: Descriptive approaches to the English Language
Name: ENGL 322A Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of linguistic theory and method to stylistic analysis.
Name: ENGL 323A Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of geographical, social, and/or urban dialects of English.
Name: ENGL 328 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploration of the concepts underlying figurative language (in vocabulary as well as in grammar), using data from both colloquial and literary language.
Name: ENGL 330A Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to phonology, morphology, and lexical semantics.
Name: ENGL 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to syntax, pragmatics, and sentence semantics.
Name: ENGL 332 Credits: 3 Desciption: History of media and technological change; literary, rhetorical, or linguistic methods of inquiry.
Name: ENGL 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Old English grammar, with readings in the prose of the period.
Name: ENGL 343 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 344A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 344B Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 346A Credits: 3 Desciption: A detailed study of Chaucer's major works.
Name: ENGL 347A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 348A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 349A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 354A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 357M Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 358 Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 359A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 359B Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 362 Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 364A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 406A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 409K Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 419A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 462A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 464A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 466A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 468A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 470A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 470B Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 470D Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 472A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 472D Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 474A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 474B Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 474D Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 476A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 478A Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 480 Credits: 3 Desciption: Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
Name: ENGL 489 Credits: 3 Desciption: Required of all Language Majors.  See department website (http://www.english.ubc.ca/ugrad/majors/compl_lang.htm) for options.
Name: ENGL 490 Credits: 3 Desciption: Required of all Literature Majors. See Department Website (www.english.ubc.ca) for options.
Name: ENGL 491A Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings in literary theory.
Name: ENGL 491B Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings in literary theory.
Name: ENGL 491C Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings in literary theory.
Name: ENGL 491D Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings in literary theory.
Name: ENGL 492A Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings in literary research.
Name: ENGL 492B Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings in literary research.
Name: ENGL 492C Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings in literary research.
Name: ENGL 492D Credits: 3 Desciption: Offerings in literary research.
Name: ENGL 496A Credits: 3 Desciption: For Honours students only.
Name: ENGL 496B Credits: 3 Desciption: For Honours students only.
Name: ENGL 496H Credits: 6 Desciption: For Honours students only.
Name: ENGL 499A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 499B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 499C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: Required of all graduate students in the M.A. program. Pass/Fail.
Name: ENGL 505A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 506A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 508A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 509A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 510A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 514A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 520A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 525A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 539A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 540A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 541A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 545A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 546A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 547A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 547B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 547C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 549A Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 549B Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 553A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 553B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 555A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ENGL 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: ENDS 101 Credits: 1 Desciption: Week long orientation to the School community, the City and the study of design one week prior to the start of Winter Session Term 1. Credit will be granted for only one of ENDS 101 or DES 101.
Name: ENDS 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques applicable to analytic and technical drawing used in architecture, landscape architecture, and urban design with focus primarily on analog drawing. Credit will be granted for only one of ENDS 110 or DES 110.
Name: ENDS 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: The unfolding architecture and urbanism of Metro Vancouver. Using Vancouver as a laboratory to examine the historical transformation of the built environment, and how this has affected particular activities, land uses, and social groups within the region. Credit will be granted for only one of ENDS 220 or DES 220.
Name: ENDS 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to interactions between human and natural urban systems using local and international examples of successful sustainable community designs. Credit will be granted for only one of ENDS 221 or DES 230.
Name: ENDS 231 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to design thinking through the analysis of architecture, landscape architecture, urban design, and hands-on design projects. Credit will be granted for only one of ENDS 231 or DES 200.
Name: ENDS 301 Credits: 9 Desciption: Introduction to the study of relationships of human beings' environments; methods of analysis and composition; physical properties of land, natural and man-made; simple spatial and functional programs deployed in the creation of outdoor spaces.
Name: ENDS 302 Credits: 9 Desciption: Expands the terms of the purposeful transformation of "place" to include modifications to the environment at the scale of the individual; concepts of dwelling and habitation; the human body as an instrument of measure, dimension and design of the private realm.
Name: ENDS 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories, histories and techniques of design representation; geometry, design and expression are principle areas of focus. Credit will be granted for only one of ENDS 320, DES 211 or ARCH 515.
Name: ENDS 401 Credits: 9 Desciption: The exploration of a complex physical and spatial program for building in the public realm, resulting in an integrative design project.
Name: ENDS 402 Credits: 9 Desciption: Expands the scale and design enquiry to emphasize the relationships between communities and environment, urban infrastructure, and ecological systems.
Name: ENDS 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to fundamental design principles and investigations of buildings, landscape, machines and furniture, including structure, enclosure, envelope and detailing.
Name: ENDS 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Relationships between, and integration of, the natural environment and the physical form, spatial structure, and livability of cities.
Name: ENDS 482A Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: ENDS 482B Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: ENDS 482C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EMBA 586A Credits: 3.0 Desciption: Restricted to Executive M.B.A. students.
Name: EMBA 587B Credits: 3 Desciption: Restricted to Executive M.B.A. students.
Name: EMBA 598A Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Restricted to Executive M.B.A. students.
Name: EMBA 598B Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Restricted to Executive M.B.A. students.
Name: ELEC 201 Credits: 4 Desciption: The fundamentals of analysis of lumped linear time-invariant circuits; network theorems; operational amplifiers; first order circuits; DC analysis of diodes, BJT, and FET circuits.
Name: ELEC 202 Credits: 4 Desciption: Phasor analysis and AC three phase systems power; transfer functions; Bode plots; filters and resonance; Laplace transforms; transformers; two-port networks. First and second order circuits.
Name: ELEC 203 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ideal passive elements and sources; Kirchhoff's Laws; DC circuits; natural and complete response of first order circuits; operational amplifiers; impedance; phasors; complex power. Not open to students in Electrical and Computer Engineering.
Name: ELEC 204 Credits: 4 Desciption: Basic concepts and analysis techniques in the context of electric and electronic circuits including Bode plots and the Laplace transform. Treatment of RLC circuits, phasors, op-amps. Introduction to nonlinear circuit elements, diodes, BJT, FET circuits.
Name: ELEC 205 Credits: 1 Desciption: Experiments involving electronic devices and circuits.
Name: ELEC 211 Credits: 2 Desciption: Electrostatics, electric currents, dielectrics, capacitance, electrostatic potential, magnetostatics.
Name: ELEC 221 Credits: 4 Desciption: Complex numbers, LTI systems, convolution sum, discrete-time Fourier series and transforms, z-transform, sampling, introduction to filtering and modulation, feedback systems, stability.
Name: ELEC 271 Credits: 1 Desciption: Effective communication in a multidisciplinary environment, introduction to emerging areas of biomedical engineering and biotechnology, ethics, and responsibility. Restricted to students admitted to the Biomedical Engineering program in Electrical Engineering.
Name: ELEC 281 Credits: 3 Desciption: Written and oral communication in engineering. Technical description, report preparation, business correspondence, and oral presentation of technical material. Restricted to students in second year of Electrical and Computer Engineering programs. Credit will be granted for only one of ELEC 281, CPEN 281, BMEG 201 or APSC 201.
Name: ELEC 291 Credits: 6 Desciption: Design projects involving electronic devices and circuits, electromagnetics, signals and systems, and microcomputers.
Name: ELEC 292 Credits: 6 Desciption: Design projects involving electronic devices and circuits, electromagnetics, signals and systems, microcomputers with applications in biomedical engineering. Final group project requiring oral presentation of student-prepared slides.
Name: ELEC 301 Credits: 4 Desciption: Analysis and design of electronic circuits; biasing of and small-signal models for transistors; frequency response of amplifiers; feedback and stability aspects of amplifier design; OP-AMPs; active filters; oscillators; IC specification and selection. Credit will only be given for one of EECE 356, ELEC 301, and EECE 374.
Name: ELEC 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Semiconductor fundamentals; modelling of electronic devices including diodes and transistors; design of power supplies, waveform generators and logic circuits; signals in time and frequency domains; operational amplifiers; active filters; oscillators; device specification and selection.
Name: ELEC 311 Credits: 4 Desciption: Waves and propagation; Maxwell's equations; applications including transmission lines; impedance matching and Smith charts; reflection and refraction; waveguides and antennas.
Name: ELEC 315 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fundamental aspects of electronic materials such as: semiconductors, metals, dielectrics, piezoelectrics, magnetic materials, and their applications in devices such as diodes, transistors, and transducers.
Name: ELEC 321 Credits: 4 Desciption: Stochastic behaviour of signals and systems; discrete and continuous probability; random processes; modeling and identification of linear time-invariant systems; binary hypothesis testing and decision making. Credit will be granted for only one of ELEC 321 or STAT 357.
Name: ELEC 331 Credits: 4 Desciption: Analysis, design and implementation of computer networks and their protocols. Application layer protocols, transmission control protocol (TCP), Internet protocol (IP), routing algorithms, reliable data transfer, multiple access, Ethernet.
Name: ELEC 341 Credits: 4 Desciption: Continuous time system analysis by Laplace transforms; system modeling by transfer function and state space methods; feedback, stability and sensitivity; control design; frequency domain analysis. Credit will be granted for only one of EECE 360, ELEC 341 or EECE 369.
Name: ELEC 342 Credits: 4 Desciption: Three phase power; transformers and harmonics; magnetic materials and circuits, electromechanical energy conversion; DC machines; rotating magnetic field, AC induction and synchronous machines; variable frequency operation, brushless DC machines; stepper and single-phase motors. Credit will only be given for one of EECE 373, ELEC 342, and EECE 374.
Name: ELEC 343 Credits: 3 Desciption: Electromechanical energy conversion; linear actuators; torque/speed of rotating devices; reluctance, stepper, permanent-magnet, induction, brushless-DC motors and DC motors; actuator/motor drive circuits/controllers. Credit will be granted for only one of EECE 365, ELEC 344, EECE 370, EECE 373, ELEC 342, EECE 374, EECE 376, or ELEC 343.
Name: ELEC 344 Credits: 3 Desciption: Characteristics of semiconductor devices; analog circuits; force and torque production; motor principles and torque-speed characteristics; principles of power electronics. Not open to students in Electrical and Computer Engineering.
Name: ELEC 352 Credits: 4 Desciption: Balanced and unbalanced three phase energy systems. Modeling of generators, transmission lines, transformers and loads. High voltage transmission, low voltage industrial and domestic distribution.
Name: ELEC 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and experiments involving instruments for general, orthopedic, cardiac and minimally invasive surgery as well as sensors for respiratory, cardiac, bioelectric, biochemical and nervous system measurement. Restricted to students admitted to the Biomedical Engineering option in Electrical Engineering.
Name: ELEC 391 Credits: 6 Desciption: Introduction to project management.  Problem definition.  Design principles and practices.  Implementation techniques including circuit design, software design, solid modeling, PCBs, assembling, and packaging.  Testing and evaluation.  Effective presentations.
Name: ELEC 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design and analysis of analog integrated circuits, with emphasis on CMOS design techniques. Gain stages, opamp design, frequency compensation, oscillators, A/D, D/A converters, PLL, DLL.
Name: ELEC 402 Credits: 4 Desciption: Static CMOS combinational logic circuits. Standard cells design and layout. Memory element (flip-flop and latch) design. Dynamic logic families. Synchronous logic and timing analysis. Power, scaling, and industry trends. Verification. VHDL/Verilog design, layout and synthesis project using CAD tools.
Name: ELEC 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Logical effort. Noise in digital systems. Low power techniques. Power distribution. SRAM and DRAM design. Non-volatile memory technologies. High speed adder, multiplier and divider design. Clock Trees. Synchronization and FIFO. Scaling, and industry trends. High-speed circuit design and layout project.
Name: ELEC 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to radio-frequency (RF) communication systems; matching networks, transceiver architectures, low noise amplifiers, mixers, oscillators, etc.
Name: ELEC 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic antenna concepts; antennas for low, medium and high frequencies; terrestrial and satellite propagation links; environmental effects on electromagnetic radiation.
Name: ELEC 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Planar dielectric waveguides; single mode optical fibers; integrated optics waveguides and devices; semiconductor lasers; optical detectors; optical communications links.
Name: ELEC 413 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to lasers and applications. Theory, modeling, fabrication and performance of semiconductor lasers. Optical communications links.
Name: ELEC 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physics of operation, and design and analysis of semiconductor devices of topical interest, e.g., solar cells, LEDs, high-speed MOSFETs, high-frequency HBTs, low-noise HEMTs.
Name: ELEC 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: DSP fundamentals; image processing; signal representation; digital filtering; statistical estimation; DSP applications.
Name: ELEC 422 Credits: 3 Desciption: Data acquisition, time and frequency domain analysis, analog and discrete filter design, sampling theory, time-dependent processing, linear prediction, random signals, biomedical system modeling, and stability analysis; introduction to nonlinear systems.
Name: ELEC 431 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of probability theory, signals and noise; digital communication over Gaussian noise channels, optimal receiver design, modulation techniques and error performance calculations; measure of information, source coding, symbol and stream codes; channel coding, capacity, simple linear block codes; practical applications.
Name: ELEC 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: Communication over bandlimited additive white Gaussian noise channels; power spectra of digitally modulated signals; intersymbol interference; cyclic, convolutional, low-density parity check and turbo codes; trellis coded modulation; spread spectrum techniques; security; wireless communication systems and standards; practical applications.
Name: ELEC 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design techniques, including Hamming, BCH, Reed-Solomon, LDPC and convolutional codes, ARQ techniques, and LFSR implementation of encoding-decoding algorithms.
Name: ELEC 434 Credits: 3 Desciption: Wavelength division multiplexing, framing techniques, traffic grooming, virtual topology design, routing and wavelength assignment, protection and restoration, optical packet switching.
Name: ELEC 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: Relationships between system parameters and system responses for linear control systems. Design specifications for dynamic and steady-state performance and realization by use of feedback control. Robust design of PID controllers and multivariable controllers.
Name: ELEC 442 Credits: 3 Desciption: Common manipulator configurations, actuator and sensor technology. Efficient representations and computational methods for real-time microprocessor-based implementation of robot control algorithms. Robot control methods, network equivalents, impedance control. Introduction to teleoperation implementation aspects.
Name: ELEC 451 Credits: 4 Desciption: Power diodes, thyristors, transistors and FETs; analysis of idealized circuits with generalized loads; AC-DC, DC-DC, DC-AC, AC-AC converters, modulation techniques, gating circuits; practical design and applications.
Name: ELEC 453 Credits: 4 Desciption: Transmission and distribution; phasors, complex power; balanced/unbalanced three-phase operation; symmetrical components, sequence networks; voltage regulation; short circuit capacity; circuit breakers; transmission lines, series/shunt impedance; short, medium, and long line models.
Name: ELEC 454 Credits: 4 Desciption: Power system monitoring/control; large networks; automatic generation control; optimum power flow calculations; traveling wave transmission lines; EMTP and MATLAB programs for transients, short-circuit, and transient stability analysis.
Name: ELEC 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of disturbances, security of power systems, cascading and blackouts; role and impact of protection; transducers and measuring elements; protection of transmission and distribution systems; protection of generators, substation equipment, special protection systems and relays.
Name: ELEC 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles; acceptable regions of operation; energy management systems; load flow methods; static and dynamic security; contingency analysis; transient and voltage stability; on-line stability assessment.
Name: ELEC 457 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of linear and nonlinear optimization methods in power systems; constrained optimization; optimal power flow; economic dispatch; electricity market; local prices for active and reactive power; security-constrained OPF; state estimation, reliability analysis.
Name: ELEC 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics of special importance to understanding and designing electronic devices in which quantum effects and the discrete nature of matter become important.
Name: ELEC 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: The mechanisms, design, fabrication, and testing of microsensors, actuators, and microelectromechanical systems (MEMS).
Name: ELEC 463 Credits: 3 Desciption: Microfabrication methods and nanofabrication techniques. Imaging and characterization of micro and nanostructures. Restricted to students admitted to the Nanotechnology and Microsystems Option in Electrical Engineering.
Name: ELEC 465 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structured modeling and design practices; multiphysics at microscales; physical limitations in MEMS; interface with electronics; behavioural modeling languages for mixed analog-digital system design. Credit will only be given for one of EECE 489, ELEC 465, or EECE 581.
Name: ELEC 471 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical principles of ultrasound, magnetic resonance, computed tomography, X-ray projection imaging and molecular imaging in medical imaging for diagnostics, therapeutics, and interventions.
Name: ELEC 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of sensors, actuators, microfluidics, biotechnology and nanotechnology, with applications in probing, detection, assaying and drug delivery.
Name: ELEC 474 Credits: 3 Desciption: Lens theory, light sources and detectors, image resolution and contrast, tissue absorption and scattering, fluorescence, microscopy, spectroscopy, optical imaging systems, and their applications to life sciences and medicine.
Name: ELEC 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: Time-money relationships; economic analysis of alternatives including the effects of interest rates, inflation, depreciation, taxation and uncertainty; cost estimation and budgeting; financial analysis of engineering operations.
Name: ELEC 491 Credits: 10 Desciption: Design, analysis, and implementation of solutions in response to a real world electrical engineering problem, provided by industry, research laboratories, or other suitable entities.  Includes coverage of topics such as project management.
Name: ELEC 492 Credits: 10 Desciption: Design, analysis, and implementation of solutions in response to a real world electrical energy systems problem, provided by industry, research laboratories, or other suitable entities.  Includes coverage of topics such as project management.
Name: ELEC 493 Credits: 10 Desciption: Design, analysis, and implementation of solutions in response to a real world nanotechnology and microsystems engineering problem.  Projects are provided by industry, research laboratories, or other suitable entities.  Includes coverage of topics such as project management.
Name: ELEC 494 Credits: 10 Desciption: Design, analysis, and implementation of solutions in response to a real world biomedical engineering problem, provided by industry, research laboratories, or other suitable entities.  Includes coverage of topics such as project management.
Name: ELEC 499A Credits: 3 Desciption: Project in electrical engineering or computer engineering involving design, experimental and/or computer simulation work as selected from topics supplied by faculty members. An individual project thesis is to be prepared according to specifications available from the departmental office.
Name: ELEC 499B Credits: 6 Desciption: Project in electrical engineering or computer engineering involving design, experimental and/or computer simulation work as selected from topics supplied by faculty members. An individual project thesis is to be prepared according to specifications available from the departmental office.
Name: EECE 509 Credits: 3 Desciption: Project-based modeling techniques applied to microsystems; multi-physics at microscale; physical limitations in MEMS; interface with electronics; behavioural modeling languages for mixed analog-digital system design.
Name: EECE 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 513 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 518 Credits: 3 Desciption: Human sensation, perception, kinetics; input technologies, gesture, vision, speech, audio; metaphors, information appliances, ubiquitous computing, wearable computing; output technologies, video display, speech, audio, tactile, haptic; evaluation methodology; user-centered design.
Name: EECE 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: Modern processor design with an emphasis on superscalar microarchitecture. Topics include: Quantitative principles, pipelining, memory hierarchy, multithreading, advanced instruction flow, and data flow techniques.
Name: EECE 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: Matching software parallelism to parallel hardware systems.  Flynn's classification; Amdahl's Law; levels of parallelism; extra parallel work; communication; message passing; shared memory; vecor programming; custom instruction set design; high-level synthesis; processor arrays; FPGAs.
Name: EECE 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: The many-body problem, molecular dynamics, tight-binding, first-principles (ab-initio) methods, the Hartree-Fock approach, the density functional theory, nanoscale simulation software and applications.
Name: EECE 532 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of sensors, actuators, microfluidics, biotechnology and nanotechnology, with applications in probing, detection, assaying, and drug delivery.
Name: EECE 534 Credits: 3 Desciption: The fundamentals for operation, fabrication of green electronic devices using nanomaterials for generation, storage and management of clean electrical energy are presented. Examples include photovoltaic devices, light-emitting diodes, piezoelectric scavengers, thermoelectric devices, and batteries.
Name: EECE 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical principles and design of optical microscopy, optical spectroscopy, and optical imaging devices and systems, and their applications in diagnostics and therapeutics.
Name: EECE 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical and practical issues in designing multimedia systems. Interactive multimedia, digital video broadcasting and streaming, media asset management, video indexing and retrieval, content protection, and design of multimedia middleware.
Name: EECE 543 Credits: 3 Desciption: Taxonomy of software development projects.  Estimation of cost and value.  Risk management.  Release planning.  Productivity and quality metrics.  Management of software assets, contracts, project portfolio, distributed projects.  Personnel, legal, ethical issues.  Applicable standards, tools.
Name: EECE 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical principles of ultrasound, magnetic resonance, computed tomography and X-ray projection imaging. Methods of feature detection, segmentation, registration and visualization of 2D and 3D images. Applications in diagnostics, therapeutics and interventions.
Name: EECE 549 Credits: 3 Desciption: Numerical aspects of time-domain simulation are reviewed. Dynamic modeling and analysis of power systems components including transformers, induction and synchronous machines, inverters, electric drives and associated controls.
Name: EECE 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: New devices and applications in power electronics.
Name: EECE 553 Credits: 3 Desciption: Computer-oriented analysis of electric power systems with regard to multiphase line constants, steady-state analysis of single and parallel circuits, lightning and switching surges; large-scale solution of power-flow problems; optimal real and reactive power flow.
Name: EECE 554 Credits: 3 Desciption: Synchronous machine modelling; excitation and speed governor systems; enhancing power system damping through excitation or governor control; linear optimal stabilization of power systems; load shedding, generator dropping and other emergency measures; asynchronous operation and resynchronization; nonlinear stability; power-frequency control.
Name: EECE 555 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: Solution of lumped and distributed networks. Time-domain solutions, discretization and integration rules. Frequency-domain solutions, FFT and windowing techniques. Systems of linear equations, reduction and sparsity techniques. Nonlinear elements. Computer-aided simulation.
Name: EECE 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: Stochastic dynamical models, Least Squares, Recursive Least Squares. Kalman, Hidden Markov, particle filters. Maximum likelihood estimation. Sensor management, Markov Decision Processes. Case studies: wireless communications, target tracking.
Name: EECE 563 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 564 Credits: 3 Desciption: Formulation of the detection problem, optimum receiver principles, signal space, maximum likelihood decisions, error performance calculations. Estimation of signals in noise, linear and non-linear estimation, cost functions, recursive mean square estimation, Wiener and Kalman filters.
Name: EECE 565 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and design of communications networks; network architectures; Internet protocols; routing; scheduling algorithms; medium access control; congestion control; admission control; optimization techniques; network management.
Name: EECE 566 Credits: 3 Desciption: Coding for noisy channels, linear block codes, cyclic codes, convolutional codes, maximum likelihood decoding, trellis coded modulation, measure of information, source coding, channel capacity theorem.
Name: EECE 569 Credits: 3 Desciption: Network architectures: cellular networks, ad hoc networks; access protocols; radio and network resource management; quality of service; mobility and location management; routing; mobile-IP; current wireless technologies for personal, local and satellite networks.
Name: EECE 570 Credits: 3 Desciption: Computational and mathematical methods for data driven processing and model-based analysis of digital images and other visual data: perception, capture; representation, modeling; enhancement, restoration; registration, fusion; feature extraction, segmentation; recognition; practical applications.
Name: EECE 571A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 571E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 571F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 571I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 571J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 571O Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 571P Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 571R Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 573 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of principles and practices of rnicro/nano fabrication technologies. Material and process selection; IC fabrication; silicon micromachining; LIGA; micro-EDM; mechanical processing; nanostructuring. Applications to MEMS/NEMS and other emerging devices.
Name: EECE 574 Credits: 3 Desciption: Adaptive control; system identification; self-tuning control; design and implementation considerations; algorithm convergence and stability; industrial applications.
Name: EECE 579 Credits: 3 Desciption: A course in VLSI design with an emphasis on new methodologies in digital IC design. Top-down design and CAD tools are illustrated through a class project. EECE 479 and EECE 481 are recommended.
Name: EECE 580 Credits: 3 Desciption: The physics, fabrication and characterization of organic and carbon nanotube based capacitors, transistors, batteries, electrochromic windows, active displays, chemical sensors, photo-detectors, strain gauges, actuators and single molecule devices.
Name: EECE 583 Credits: 3 Desciption: Algorithms used in contemporary computer-aided design tools targeting custom integrated circuits and field-programmable gate arrays, including high-level synthesis, logic optimization, partitioning, placement and routing, optimization techniques.
Name: EECE 584 Credits: 6 Desciption: Design, fabricate, and test a photonic integrated circuit (PIC) using silicon-on-insulator (SOI) technology.  Modelling and design of optical components.
Name: EECE 588 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and design emphasizing CMOS implementations. Gain stages, biasing circuits, comparators, sample-and-hold circuits, switched-capacitor circuits, Nyquist-rate and oversampling A/Ds and D/As, oscillators, PLLs.
Name: EECE 592 Credits: 3 Desciption: Learning in neural networks; error backpropagation, simulated annealing, content addressable memories. Data representation topics. Reinforcement learning (RL). Implementation challenges in real world scale problems. Architectures for function approximation in RL. Comparison with conventional AI; history and emerging trends.
Name: EECE 595 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EECE 597 Credits: 6 Desciption: Project report on assigned topic of specialization. For students registered in the M.Eng. program in Electrical or Computer Engineering.
Name: EECE 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: For M.A.Sc.
Name: EECE 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: For Ph.D.
Name: EDUC 140 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDUC 143 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDUC 240 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDUC 315A Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 321A Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 323A Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 344 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 399 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 418D Credits: 12 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 418E Credits: 12 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 419D Credits: 12 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 419E Credits: 12 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 421D Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: EDUC 421E Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: EDUC 430 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 449A Credits: 3 Desciption: Available only to outstanding students approved by the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 449B Credits: 3 Desciption: Available only to outstanding students approved by the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 449C Credits: 6 Desciption: Available only to outstanding students approved by the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 450A Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 450B Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 451A Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 451B Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 452B Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 490B Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490E Credits: 2 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490H Credits: 2 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490I Credits: 5 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490J Credits: 2 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490K Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490L Credits: 1 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490M Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490N Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490Q Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490R Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 490X Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics not covered in a course. A pilot course may be offered under this name for only one year and with permission of the Associate Dean (Teacher Education).
Name: EDUC 495A Credits: 4 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 495B Credits: 6 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 495C Credits: 8 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 495D Credits: 10 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 495E Credits: 12 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 495F Credits: 14 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 495G Credits: 16 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 495H Credits: 18 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 496A Credits: 4 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 496B Credits: 6 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 496C Credits: 8 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 496D Credits: 10 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 496E Credits: 12 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 496F Credits: 14 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 496G Credits: 16 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 496H Credits: 18 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 496I Credits: 9 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDUC 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: Overview of methodological approaches to research in education.
Name: EDUC 503A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDUC 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDST 403 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDST 493 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of the field of study of higher education in Canada and other countries emphasizing current issues such as accessibility, enrolment, diversity of offerings, and internationalization.
Name: EDST 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 502A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 508A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 509 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 518 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 523A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 525 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 532 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 540A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 540B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 543 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 545 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 546 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 552 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 553A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 555 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 561A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 561B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 565B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 565D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 565F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 570 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 571 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 575 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 577 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 579 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 580A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 580C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 581 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 582 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 585 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDST 596A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 597 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 599C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 599E Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: EDST 601A Credits: 3 Desciption: Required of students in the first year of a doctoral program. Pass/Fail.
Name: EDST 601B Credits: 3 Desciption: Required of students in the first year of a doctoral program. Pass/Fail.
Name: EDST 601D Credits: 3 Desciption: Required of students in the first year of a doctoral program. Pass/Fail.
Name: EDST 602A Credits: 3 Desciption: For students in the second year of a doctoral program. Pass/Fail.
Name: EDST 690 Credits: 0 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDST 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: Role of music education in schools and society, including historical, philosophical, psychological, and sociological perspectives. Includes guided class observations and practice music teaching in elementary and secondary schools. Criminal Record Check required.
Name: EDCP 301 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 302A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 303 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 304 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 308 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 311A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 312A Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 313A Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 320 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 322A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 323 Credits: 3 Desciption: Costs for field trips and an overnight experience are borne by students. Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 331 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 332A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 340 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 342A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 343 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 349 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 352A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 354 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 355A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 356 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 357 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 362B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 362D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 373A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 374A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 375A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 377 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 378 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 391A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 408 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 409 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 442 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 454 Credits: 3 Desciption: Teacher Education Office approval is required. Open only to secondary students admitted with an academic deficiency. Not for credit toward graduate degree or for undergraduate credit in an academic subject. Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 467A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 468A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 468D Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 468E Credits: 4 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 471A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 471B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 471E Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 472 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 474 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 491 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 492 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Culminating inquiry in curriculum and pedagogy for the Home Economics Education Diploma.
Name: EDCP 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: EDCP 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 512A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 513 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Emphasis is placed upon the foundations and conflicting conceptions of curriculum in art education. Theory/practice issues in the development, implementation, and evaluation of art programs are explored.
Name: EDCP 524 Credits: 3 Desciption: Foundations and conflicting conceptions of digital visual culture and art education. Theory and practice in the development and implementation of art education technology.
Name: EDCP 526A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 537 Credits: 3 Desciption: A review and critical analysis of the history and philosophy of school home economics programs.
Name: EDCP 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: Recent controversies in North American historical literature and implications for school curriculum in the light of research on teaching and learning history.
Name: EDCP 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical underpinnings and pedagogical, social and economic implications of 21st century technology-enhanced mathematics and science education.
Name: EDCP 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: An advanced course in curriculum and pedagogy.
Name: EDCP 552 Credits: 3 Desciption: Recent theories and research.
Name: EDCP 555 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current ideas about science curriculum, the nature of science, and its implications for scientific literacy.
Name: EDCP 556 Credits: 3 Desciption: Historical and current social, political and economic influences on science curriculum and science teaching.
Name: EDCP 557 Credits: 3 Desciption: Conceptual and practical issues associated with contemporary approaches.
Name: EDCP 559 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current models and methods of inquiry in science education.
Name: EDCP 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 565 Credits: 3 Desciption: Issues, theories, and research studies.
Name: EDCP 566 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 568 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 571 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 580A Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed Studies and Major Essay in the diverse disciplines and topics of curriculum and pedagogy.
Name: EDCP 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed Studies and Major Essay in the diverse disciplines and topics of curriculum and pedagogy.
Name: EDCP 580C Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed Studies and Major Essay in the diverse disciplines and topics of curriculum and pedagogy.
Name: EDCP 580D Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed Studies and Major Essay in the diverse disciplines and topics of curriculum and pedagogy.
Name: EDCP 585A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 585B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 585C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 585E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 598A Credits: 3 Desciption: Field experiences in community-based or museum contexts. Focus on curriculum design and evaluation.
Name: EDCP 598B Credits: 3 Desciption: Field experiences in community-based or museum contexts. Focus on curriculum design and evaluation.
Name: EDCP 598C Credits: 3 Desciption: Field experiences in community-based or museum contexts. Focus on curriculum design and evaluation.
Name: EDCP 599C Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 601A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 602A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: EDCP 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: ECPS 490A Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed investigation of a problem or issue, requiring a written report or alternate mode of reporting or disseminating results of the investigation
Name: ECPS 490B Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed investigation of a problem or issue, requiring a written report or alternate mode of reporting or disseminating results of the investigation
Name: ECPS 490C Credits: 6 Desciption: Directed investigation of a problem or issue, requiring a written report or alternate mode of reporting or disseminating results of the investigation
Name: ECON 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
Name: ECON 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of growth and business cycles, national income accounting, interest and exchange rates, money and banking, the balance of trade.
Name: ECON 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of policy issues, such as regulation, taxation, environmental and resource policy, health care, education and income distribution.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing.
Name: ECON 211 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of policy issues, such as the costs of inflation and unemployment, monetary and fiscal policy, the effects of government debt and exchange rate policy.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing.
Name: ECON 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to how people interact in strategic situations drawn from political science, history, psychology, law, biology, military history, economics, business, and anthropology. The focus will be on developing intuition.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 221 or ISCI 344.
Name: ECON 226 Credits: 3 Desciption: Formulation of a testable hypothesis, identification of relevant data, use of appropriate statistical tools.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing in ECON or COMM. Not available for credit to students already having credit for either of ECON 325 or ECON 326 (or equivalent).
Name: ECON 234 Credits: 3 Desciption: Historical approaches to long-run economic growth; international comparisons of income growth and inequality; colonialism; evolution of world capital markets; human migrations; rise of world trading empires; instability in the international economy.  Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 234 or former ECON 334 (6).  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing.
Name: ECON 255 Credits: 3 Desciption: Social and economic implications for both rich and poor countries of lowered barriers to the international flows of information, capital, labour and goods.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing.
Name: ECON 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Consumer behaviour, producer theory, exchange, monopoly, oligopoly, externalities, public goods, general equilibrium and welfare economics. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 201, ECON 204, ECON 301, ECON 304, COMM 295 or FRE 295.
Name: ECON 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Income and employment theory, monetary theory, the open economy, economic fluctuations and growth. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 302 or ECON 305.
Name: ECON 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Risk and uncertainty, some concepts in game theory, adverse selection, moral hazard, bargaining, auctions. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 303 or ECON 306.
Name: ECON 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: Consumer behaviour, producer theory, exchange, monopoly, oligopoly, externalities, public goods, general equilibrium and welfare economics. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 204, ECON 301, ECON 304, COMM 295 or FRE 295.
Name: ECON 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Income and employment theory, monetary theory, the open economy, economic fluctuations and growth. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 302 or ECON 305.
Name: ECON 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: Risk and uncertainty, some concepts in game theory, adverse selection, moral hazard, bargaining, auctions. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 303 or ECON 306.
Name: ECON 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories of economic growth and the business cycle. Intended primarily for prospective honours and other qualified students.
Name: ECON 308 Credits: 6 Desciption: Mathematical and graphical models of individual, household, and firm behavior with applications to issues in international economics. Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 301, ECON 304 or ECON 308.
Name: ECON 309 Credits: 3 Desciption: The aggregate economy with emphasis on macroeconomic policy and international economic growth, money and inflation, unemployment, business cycles, and macroeconomic stabilization policy under fixed and flexible exchange rates. Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 302, ECON 305 or ECON 309.
Name: ECON 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: The scope of this course is approximately the same as that of ECON101. The course is intended for upper-level students only. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 310 or ECON 101.
Name: ECON 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: The scope of this course is approximately the same as that of ECON 102. The course is intended for upper-level students only. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 311 or ECON 102.
Name: ECON 317 Credits: 3 Desciption: Economic inequality in Canada and other countries; measurement and causes. Inequality in the distribution of wealth; redistribution of income and wealth; notions of distributive justice.
Name: ECON 318 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of economic thought from Aristotle to Adam Smith, focusing on the conceptual foundations of economics, particularly the problems of value, distribution, and economic growth.
Name: ECON 319 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of economic thought from David Ricardo up to the present including such figures as Malthus, Mill, Jevons, and Keynes, focusing on the conceptual foundations of economics, particularly the problems of value, distribution and growth.
Name: ECON 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: Essentials of probability and statistics for applied work in economics. Topics include descriptive statistics, probability, estimation, hypothesis testing, and analysis of variance. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414
Name: ECON 326 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of empirical economic research. Topics include simple and multiple regression, time series analysis, and simultaneous equation estimation. Students will be required to undertake applied work. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: ECON 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic tools for the statistical analysis of economic data. Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 325, ECON 327,or STAT 200.
Name: ECON 328 Credits: 3 Desciption: Empirical tools used in applied research, with emphasis on the linear regression model. Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics program. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 326, ECON 328, or STAT 306.
Name: ECON 334 Credits: 3 Desciption: Background, causes and effects of economic change in Europe from the 18th century to recent times. Evolution of social and economic institutions; analysis of growth, structural change, the distribution of income, and the spread of industrialization.
Name: ECON 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: Traditional fertility and mortality patterns, demographic transition, catastrophes, well-being and nutrition, international and internal migration, epidemics and growth spurts.
Name: ECON 336 Credits: 3 Desciption: The growth of the Canadian economy in relation to development of natural resources, changing markets, industrialism, communications, and technology.
Name: ECON 339 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of economic analysis to technological change; the impact of technological change on the growth and distribution of income; economic influences on the invention and diffusion of technology; the interaction between technology, work, skills, and education; public policy toward technological change.
Name: ECON 345 Credits: 3 Desciption: Financial markets and financial institutions in theory and practice; structure and development of the Canadian financial system; development and theory of the regulation of the financial system; process of monetary control; theory and history of central banking and monetary policy.
Name: ECON 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of two or three selected policy problems from areas of taxation, income security, and public expenditures. Topics to be selected each year from areas of current or recent policy debate. Examples include public pension policy, privatization and public services, income tax or sales tax reform, federal-provincial cost sharing programs, tax incentives versus direct expenditures, welfare reform.
Name: ECON 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Economic analysis of markets and policies particularly affecting women. Selected topics drawn from economic discrimination; educational, occupational, and work choices; pay and employment equity; allocation of work time and consumption within the household and in the market; economics of marriage and fertility; poverty; taxation; income security and pension policies; and historical perspectives.
Name: ECON 355 Credits: 3 Desciption: The determinants of trade patterns, trade policy, tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade, political economy of protectionism, bilateral and multilateral trade disputes, trade liberalization, trade and development. Credit may be obtained for only one of ECON 355 and 455.
Name: ECON 356 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exchange rate policy regimes; international financial organizations; the interaction between monetary policy and exchange rate regimes; financial crises.
Name: ECON 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current topics in industrial organization and regulation with emphasis on Canadian federal and provincial policy. The content will differ from year to year. Possible subjects include the regulation of transportation and communications, environmental regulation, marketing boards and other forms of agricultural regulation, competition and anti-combines policy, industrial organization and trade policy, and issues in consumer protection.
Name: ECON 367 Credits: 3 Desciption: The economics of market failure, equity and efficiency. Property rights, the economics of accident and contract law, economic theories of law enforcement.
Name: ECON 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques and problems in benefit-cost analysis of public projects. Examination of alternative approaches to public decision-making such as cost-effectiveness analysis and multiple-objective frameworks. Case studies of projects in the areas of natural resources, the environment, human resources, public services, and transportation.
Name: ECON 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: Economic analysis applied to various environmental issues, including sustainable development, quality of life, and environmental impacts of specific industrial and consumption activities. The design and implementation of government policies. Global environmental effects of human economic activity.
Name: ECON 374 Credits: 3 Desciption: Economic analysis applied to problems of land use. Rent theory. Land valuation. Land conservation. Techniques for assessing economic efficiency of land use. Effects of institutions and public policies on land use.
Name: ECON 390 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in economic research.  Application of research methods to economic data.  Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 390, ECON 490, ECON 495, or ECON 499.
Name: ECON 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in advanced microeconomic analysis.
Name: ECON 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in advanced macroeconomic analysis.
Name: ECON 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to static and dynamic optimization methods with economic applications.
Name: ECON 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of rational behaviour in strategic situations and various notions of equilibrium useful in predicting outcomes. Applications from economics, business, politics, law and biology.
Name: ECON 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical and applied issues in statistics and econometrics. Statistical distributions, sampling theory, maximum likelihood methods of estimation and hypothesis testing, generalized least squares, measurement errors, non-normal errors, systems of equations, discrete-choice models, outliers, regression diagnostics, and model selection.
Name: ECON 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: Industrialization of an agrarian economy; how the West grew rich; history of Japanese development; technical progress and growth; evolution of the patterns of income distribution; role of international trade in development; environment and development.
Name: ECON 447 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical analysis of economies that use money; the emergence of money; the roles of money in the economy; models of money demand; the optimal quantity of money seignorage and inflation; monetary policy and macroeconomic stability; monetary policy in an open economy.
Name: ECON 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: The role of government in the economy; efficiency and economic justice. Theory of public goods; applications to topics such as education, medical care and social services. Pricing and investment rules for public enterprises.
Name: ECON 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: International trade theory and policy in general equilibrium; relative costs, factor proportions, imperfect competition and the pattern of trade; efficiency and distribution. Credit granted for only one of ECON355 and ECON455.
Name: ECON 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: Balance of payments; market for foreign exchange; mechanism for adjusting the balance of payments; internal vs. external stability; current problems and issues.
Name: ECON 457 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics focusing upon various issues arising in international economic relations. Open only to fourth-year students in the Major program in International Relations.
Name: ECON 465 Credits: 3 Desciption: Market structure and social welfare, theory of price discrimination, equilibrium in oligopolistic markets, entry and exit decisions, product differentiation and spatial models, theories of hierarchical organization, agency problem in the modern corporation, vertical integration and control, market structure and technical progress.
Name: ECON 466 Credits: 3 Desciption: Normative and positive theories of government regulation of business. Topics include natural monopoly, socially optimal monopoly pricing, regulation of multi-firm industries, competition policy. Selected empirical studies.
Name: ECON 472 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of economic analysis to the management of renewable resources. Special attention is given to criteria for the optimal use of depleting resources such as forests and water. Other topics include public policy with regard to environmental quality, conservation, and outdoor recreation.
Name: ECON 482 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of the economic aspects of religious behaviour, the structure of religious organizations, the effects of competition in the religious marketplace, the economic benefits of religion, and some of the ill-effects of religion (such as religious strife and terrorism).
Name: ECON 485 Credits: 3 Desciption: State and politics in economics. How states emerge, how dictators stay in power. Why groups engage in costly conflict, how countries turn into democracies and what its benefits are.
Name: ECON 490 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected problems and issues in the theory and practice of Economics. Each section will focus on a different field. Restricted to Economics Majors, and Combined Majors in Economics their final academic session.
Name: ECON 492A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 492D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 492F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 493 Credits: 3 Desciption: Econometric methodologies necessary to conduct applied research, including time series analysis and panel data methods; review of empirical work in international economics.  Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program.
Name: ECON 494 Credits: 3 Desciption: Focus on a particular aspect of applied international economics. Independent empirical research project required.  Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program.
Name: ECON 495 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reports and group discussions of selected topics for fourth-year Honours students.
Name: ECON 499 Credits: 6 Desciption: Essay on some theoretical, applied, or institutional problem. Open only to fourth-year Honours students.
Name: ECON 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 515A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 546 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 555 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 556 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 561 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 565 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 566 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 567 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 573 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 580 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 590A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 590B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 600 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 601 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 602 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 603 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 626 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 627 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 628 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 629C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 640 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 690C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ECON 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 405A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of pre-kindergarten programs with reference to recent research, theories of early learning, and curriculum trends and practices.
Name: ECED 416 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of kindergarten programs with reference to recent research, theories of early learning, curriculum trends and practices, and the place of kindergarten in contemporary education.
Name: ECED 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 438 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 439 Credits: 3 Desciption: (Formerly EPSE 420).
Name: ECED 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: (Formerly EPSE 440).
Name: ECED 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: (Formerly EPSE 441).
Name: ECED 442 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 508A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 508B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 580A Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: ECED 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: ECED 580C Credits: 6 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: ECED 585A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 585F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ECED 590A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: ECED 590E Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: ECED 598A Credits: 3 Desciption: For those in master's, doctoral, and diploma programs.
Name: ECED 598C Credits: 6 Desciption: For those in master's, doctoral, and diploma programs.
Name: ECED 599A Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: DSCI 511 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pseudo-code. Program design and structure. Flow control. Iteration. Lists (arrays). Functions. File I/O. Classes, objects, methods, and libraries.
Name: DSCI 512 Credits: 1 Desciption: Basic algorithms. Recursion. Data structures including linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, graphs, and hash tables. Searching and sorting. Introduction to complexity including Big-O notation, efficiency, and scalability.
Name: DSCI 513 Credits: 1 Desciption: Relational schemas. SQL queries. Database programming using embedded SQL. XML and XQuery.
Name: DSCI 521 Credits: 1 Desciption: Introduction to software, shells, tools, and file systems for use in the Data Science program. Installation, configuration, and use of statistical and programming software including Integrated Development Environments (IDEs). Problem resolution skills.
Name: DSCI 522 Credits: 1 Desciption: Interactive and non-interactive data analysis. Scripting. Dynamic reporting. Reproducibility. Project and file management. Version control. Automated workflows.
Name: DSCI 523 Credits: 1 Desciption: Manipulation of tabular and non-tabular data using software tools. Organizing, filtering, sorting, grouping, reformatting, converting, and cleaning data to prepare it for further analysis.
Name: DSCI 524 Credits: 1 Desciption: Software life cycle. Unit testing. Continuous integration. Submission to a relevant repository for distribution. Packaging for installation and use by others. Software licenses. Classes and abstraction.
Name: DSCI 525 Credits: 1 Desciption: Networks and the Internet, scraping data, APIs, cloud computing, Web services for scalable computing, Web hosting, Web publication platforms, introduction to parallel computing.
Name: DSCI 531 Credits: 1 Desciption: Descriptive plots using statistical and programming software. Basics, mechanics, and principles of data visualization.
Name: DSCI 532 Credits: 1 Desciption: Interactive visualization, design choices, dynamic change over time, multiple views, data reduction, dealing with complexity.
Name: DSCI 541 Credits: 1 Desciption: Privacy and data. Ethics boards, legal issues, licensing. Physical and logical data security, social engineering. Encryption, data anonymization, privacy-preserving techniques. Case studies.
Name: DSCI 542 Credits: 1 Desciption: Claims, reasons, and evidence. Strengths and weaknesses of models. Effective oral and written presentation of scientific results, including interpretation of data and recognition of assumptions, bias, validity, and reliability. Citations, references, and peer-review.
Name: DSCI 551 Credits: 1 Desciption: Descriptive statistics including measures of location and spread. Random variables, distributions, and parameters. Categorical variables. Uncertainty. Missing data.
Name: DSCI 552 Credits: 1 Desciption: Random variables, parameters, observed data, statistics (distinctions and connections). Estimation: point and interval. Two-group comparisons, frequentist version. Simulation-based approaches.
Name: DSCI 553 Credits: 1 Desciption: Multiple hypothesis testing, false discovery rate. Two-group comparisons, Bayesian paradigm.
Name: DSCI 554 Credits: 1 Desciption: Randomization. A/B testing. Blocked designs. Orthogonality. Batch effects, confounding. Causality. Contemporary examples. Simulations.
Name: DSCI 561 Credits: 1 Desciption: Linear models: continuous response; one or more categorical covariates and/or one or more continuous covariates.
Name: DSCI 562 Credits: 1 Desciption: Non-parametric regression and smoothing. Data-driven parameter selection. Robust regression. Mixed effects.
Name: DSCI 563 Credits: 1 Desciption: Unsupervised learning. K-means/medoids. Model-based clustering. Expectation-maximization algorithm. Hierarchical clustering. Dimension reduction. Matrix decomposition. Heatmaps, contour plots, dendograms.
Name: DSCI 571 Credits: 1 Desciption: Decision trees. k-th nearest neighbour classifiers. Naive Bayes classifiers. Logistic regression.
Name: DSCI 572 Credits: 1 Desciption: Support Vector Machines. Random Forests. Ensemble Classifiers. Graphical models.
Name: DSCI 573 Credits: 1 Desciption: Performance of a classification model. Generalization error, overfitting of training data. Shrinkage, feature selection, Akaike Information Criterion, Bayesian Information Criterion. k-fold cross validation. Bootstrapping. Receiver Operating Characteristic curve. Elastic nets, regularization.
Name: DSCI 574 Credits: 1 Desciption: Time series. State space and change point detection. Hidden Markov Models. Gaussian processes.
Name: DSCI 575 Credits: 1 Desciption: Neural networks trained with backpropagation. Deep learning. Overfitting and underfitting. Active data acquisition. Hyperparameter optimization.
Name: DSCI 591 Credits: 6 Desciption: A capstone design project designed to give students experience in leading complex multidisciplinary projects relevant to data science.
Name: DMED 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: Business, technological, social, and ethical issues of digital entertainment introduced and framed though historical exploration and critical analysis of economics, technical innovations, social demands, and ethical constraints involved.
Name: DMED 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of games as rules, games as play, and games as culture. Students make both physical and electronic games as part of this course.
Name: DHYG 106 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic principles in the study of microorganisms and their relation to human health for dental hygiene students.
Name: DHYG 108 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to normal, healthy facial, oral, and dental structures; oral health records, and charting terminology and symbols.
Name: DHYG 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the Dental Hygiene profession, practice roles and the process of care model.
Name: DHYG 206 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DHYG 208 Credits: 12 Desciption: An introduction to desease-related concepts during the study of dental materials, general pathology, plaque biofilm, nutrition, radiology, periodontology, and oral pathology.
Name: DHYG 210 Credits: 18 Desciption: The study of dental hygiene theory and practice in clinical and community-based settings.
Name: DHYG 310 Credits: 18 Desciption: The study of dental hygiene theory and practice with emphasis on diverse clients with oral health care needs.
Name: DHYG 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: Applied pharmacology concepts and principles for the dental health professional.
Name: DHYG 400B Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical reviews of oral health care delivery, oral disease processes and dental hygiene.
Name: DHYG 401 Credits: 6 Desciption: Basic epidemiological and statistical concepts and tests relevant to evidence-based oral health practices.
Name: DHYG 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Microbiology and immunological concepts relevant for dental hygiene practice.
Name: DHYG 406 Credits: 6 Desciption: Conduct an in-depth investigation of a health promotion issue.
Name: DHYG 410 Credits: 18 Desciption: Critical analysis of dental hygiene theory and practice related to diverse clients with complex oral health care needs.
Name: DHYG 412 Credits: 6 Desciption: Critical analysis of health care trends and oral health care delivery with emphasis on underserved diverse populations.
Name: DHYG 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: Available in online distance education format only.
Name: DHYG 435 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pathobiology of oral diseases. Available in online distance education format only.
Name: DHYG 461 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: DHYG 462 Credits: 4 Desciption: A continuation of DHYG 461.
Name: DERM 430 Credits: 1 Desciption: Exposure to a number of aspects pertaining to the clinical practice of dermatology.
Name: DENT 410 Credits: 35 Desciption: Fundamentals of human biology, body systems, diseases, and supporting basic oral health sciences. Learning in small groups, classroom, laboratory, and clinical settings utilizing technology.  Professionalism, ethics, inter-professional education and the social contract, communication skills, and critical evaluation of the literature. Begin to apply foundation knowledge and skills to patient assessment and care.
Name: DENT 420 Credits: 38 Desciption: Continued exposure to body systems and the supporting biomedical sciences with applications in dental clinical sciences, integrated into small group learning, classroom, laboratory, and community settings utilizing technology; continued engagement in professionalism, ethics and communication skills.
Name: DENT 430 Credits: 36 Desciption: A multi-disciplinary course integrating didactic, simulation, clinical, and community service learning. Students function as team members in clinical group practices with individual progression through the Clinical Clerkships.
Name: DENT 440 Credits: 52 Desciption: A continuing integrated, multi-disciplinary course with ongoing participation in clinical group practices and individual progression through the Clinical Clerkships and community service learning.
Name: DENT 504 Credits: 1 Desciption: Treatment planning, instruments, techniques, materials, prognosis, and evaluation of results. Lectures, seminars, and simulation training.
Name: DENT 505 Credits: 1 Desciption: Dental trauma and tooth resorptions: etiology, pathogenesis, epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment. Lectures, seminars, and simulation training.
Name: DENT 507 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 510 Credits: 6 Desciption: Continues in year 2.
Name: DENT 511 Credits: 6 Desciption: Continues in year 3.
Name: DENT 512 Credits: 6 Desciption: Continues in year 3.
Name: DENT 513 Credits: 6 Desciption: Continues in year 2.
Name: DENT 514 Credits: 6 Desciption: Continues in year 3.
Name: DENT 515 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continues in year 2.
Name: DENT 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continues in year 3.
Name: DENT 518 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 523 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 524 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 525 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 526 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 527 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 528 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 529 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 531 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 532 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 533 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 539 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 542 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 543 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 544 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 555 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 556 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 561A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 561B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 561C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 561D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 561E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 565 Credits: 8 Desciption: Continues in second year.
Name: DENT 566 Credits: 8 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 567 Credits: 8 Desciption: Continues in second year.
Name: DENT 568 Credits: 8 Desciption: Continues in third year.
Name: DENT 569 Credits: 8 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 570 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 572 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 573 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 574 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 575 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 576 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 577B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 578 Credits: 6 Desciption: Dental anatomy, morphology, endodontic instruments, diagnosis and differential diagnosis, etiology and pathogenesis of endodontic infections, and strategies of infection control.
Name: DENT 584 Credits: 6 Desciption: Endodontic epidemiology, materials, prognosis of treatment, geriatric endodontics, complications, treatment resistant infections, and endo-perio lesions.
Name: DENT 591 Credits: 1 Desciption: Modern endodontic technology and clinical endodontics. Lectures, seminars, and simulation training.
Name: DENT 592 Credits: 1 Desciption: Modern endodontic technology and clinical endodontics. Lectures, seminars, and simulation training.
Name: DENT 594 Credits: 5 Desciption: Student case presentations, treatment choice, and evaluation of prognosis.
Name: DENT 595 Credits: 5 Desciption: Student case presentations, treatment choice, and evaluation of prognosis.
Name: DENT 596 Credits: 5 Desciption: Student case presentations, treatment choice, and evaluation of prognosis.
Name: DENT 599 Credits: 18 Desciption: Enrolment restricted to graduate students in Dental Science.
Name: DENT 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 711 Credits: 12 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: DENT 712 Credits: 12 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: DENT 713 Credits: 12 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: DENT 715 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 721 Credits: 8 Desciption: Endodontic treatment of patients in the clinic under the supervision of specialist instructors. Supervised endodontic treatment clinic.
Name: DENT 722 Credits: 8 Desciption: Endodontic treatment of patients in the clinic under the supervision of specialist instructors. Supervised endodontic treatment clinic.
Name: DENT 724 Credits: 6 Desciption: Endodontic treatment of patients in the clinic under the supervision of specialist instructors. Supervised endodontic treatment clinic.
Name: DENT 725 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 726 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 727 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 740 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 741 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 742 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 743 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 750 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 756 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 769 Credits: 3 Desciption: Preparing dental graduate instructors to be effective teachers in dentistry. Spans from August of year 1 to August of year 2 for first year dental graduate students.
Name: DENT 771 Credits: 8 Desciption: Continues in second year.
Name: DENT 772 Credits: 12 Desciption: Continues in third year.
Name: DENT 773 Credits: 8 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 775 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 777 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: DENT 778 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: DENT 779 Credits: 2 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: DENT 780 Credits: 12 Desciption: Continues in year 5.
Name: DENT 781 Credits: 12 Desciption: Continues in year 6.
Name: DENT 782 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 783 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 784 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DENT 785 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DANI 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DANI 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DANI 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: DANI 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CSPW 100 Credits: 1 Desciption: Students participate in activities related to their CSP courses, including hands-on work, discussion and analysis of scientific topics. Graded Pass/Fail.
Name: CSIS 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introductory survey to sexuality studies that emphasizes how sexuality intersects with race, gender, class, ability, and geography.
Name: CSIS 300A Credits: 3 Desciption: A multidisciplinary, team-taught course which provides an introduction to the study of sexuality, including  lesbian, gay, bisexual, heterosexual, and transgender issues and related topics.
Name: CSIS 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: How race, citizenship, gender, sexuality, culture and dis/ability are materially and socially constructed together to give meaning to the category trans*. (Trans*: transgender, transsexual, gender variant and other articulations.)
Name: CSIS 450B Credits: 3 Desciption: A thematic course, which explores current questions and issues in relation to the study of sexuality. Topics may vary from year to year.
Name: CSIS 490A Credits: 3 Desciption: Designed to allow a student to develop an individual course of study in a specific area as approved by a faculty member affiliated with the CSIS program.
Name: CSIS 490B Credits: 3 Desciption: Designed to allow a student to develop an individual course of study in a specific area as approved by a faculty member affiliated with the CSIS program.
Name: CSIS 490C Credits: 6 Desciption: Designed to allow a student to develop an individual course of study in a specific area as approved by a faculty member affiliated with the CSIS program.
Name: CRWR 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of and practice in multiple genres of writing, including fiction, poetry, creative nonfiction, screenplay, stageplay, graphic forms, lyric forms, childrens literature, and writing for new media. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of and practice in the writing of poetry, focusing on how a writer employs the technical elements of the craft of poetry. Manuscript submission not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 203 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of and practice in creating, developing and writing for children and young adults. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 205 Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of and practice in the writing of creative nonfiction, focusing on how a writer employs the technical elements of the craft of creative nonfiction. Manuscript submission not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 206 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of and practice in creating, developing, and writing a screenplay. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 208 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of and practice in creating, developing, and writing the graphic novel, manga, and other forms of illustrated writing. The ability to draw is not required. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 209 Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of the writing of fiction, focusing on how a writer employs the technical elements of the craft of fiction. Manuscript submission not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 213 Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of and practice in writing for new media, including podcasting, blogging, and writing for websites, games, and online environments. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Covers three genres from fiction, poetry, creative nonfiction, radio drama, radio feature, or stageplay.
Name: CRWR 230 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of and practice in creative writing in comedic forms, including stand-up, sketch, film, new media, and text. Manuscript submission not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: The writing of poetry in various forms using a combination of workshopping and online modules. Manuscript submission not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploration of and practice in writing for podcast.
Name: CRWR 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: The writing of work for children and young adults in various forms using a combination of workshopping and online modules. Manuscript submission not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of and practice in the writing of creative non-fiction, covering four of the more basic forms of this genre: memoir, profile, commentary, and exposition. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of and practice in writing for the screen, focusing on how a writer employs the technical elements of the craft of screenwriting. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of practice in the writing of the one-act stage play and short radio drama, focusing on how a writer employs the technical elements of the craft of these dramatic genres. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 308 Credits: 3 Desciption: The writing of graphica (comics, manga and graphic novels), using a combination of workshopping and online modules. Manuscript submission not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 309 Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of the writing of fiction, focusing on how a writer employs the technical elements of the craft of fiction. Manuscript submission not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Narrative design and writing for video games.
Name: CRWR 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques of and practice in writing for lyric forms, including song lyrics, lyrical narratives, and libretti. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 351I Credits: 3 Desciption: An intermediate level workshop class in writing poetry. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 353I Credits: 3 Desciption: An intermediate level workshop class in writing for children and young adults. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 356I Credits: 3 Desciption: An intermediate level workshop class in writing for the screen. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 359I Credits: 3 Desciption: An intermediate level workshop class in writing of fiction. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 359J Credits: 3 Desciption: An intermediate level workshop class in writing of fiction. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
Name: CRWR 401I Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in the writing of poetry.
Name: CRWR 401J Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in the writing of poetry.
Name: CRWR 402J Credits: 3 Desciption: An advanced workshop class in writing for new media. Restricted to Majors in Creative Writing.
Name: CRWR 403I Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in writing for Children and Young Adults.
Name: CRWR 403J Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in writing for Children and Young Adults.
Name: CRWR 405I Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in writing creative nonfiction, focused on some of the more popular forms of creative nonfiction: autobiography, rhetoric (commentary), literary journalism, and the personal essay.
Name: CRWR 405J Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in writing creative nonfiction, focused on some of the more popular forms of creative nonfiction: autobiography, rhetoric (commentary), literary journalism, and the personal essay.
Name: CRWR 406I Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in writing for the screen.
Name: CRWR 406J Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in writing for the screen.
Name: CRWR 407K Credits: 6 Desciption: A workshop class in writing of drama for the stage. Studio work is required, and some plays may be given a live stage production in Brave New Play Rites (adjudication process involved).
Name: CRWR 408I Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in the writing of graphic novel, manga, and other forms of illustrated writing. The ability to draw is not required.
Name: CRWR 408J Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in the writing of graphic novel, manga, and other forms of illustrated writing. The ability to draw is not required.
Name: CRWR 409I Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in the writing of fiction.
Name: CRWR 409J Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in the writing of fiction.
Name: CRWR 411I Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class exploring the words that accompany music in varied forms including pop, art, musical theatre, and opera.
Name: CRWR 411J Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class exploring the words that accompany music in varied forms including pop, art, musical theatre, and opera.
Name: CRWR 416I Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in writing for television.
Name: CRWR 416J Credits: 3 Desciption: A workshop class in writing for television.
Name: CRWR 430 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of CRWR 430 or CRWR 530.
Name: CRWR 440I Credits: 3 Desciption: Group projects and workshops with students majoring in other creative arts.
Name: CRWR 440J Credits: 3 Desciption: Group projects and workshops with students majoring in other creative arts.
Name: CRWR 455J Credits: 3 Desciption: An advanced workshop class focusing on memoir, biography, rhetoric, literary journalism, the personal essay, and some hybrid forms of creative nonfiction. Includes instruction in researching and interviewing techniques. Assumes more writing experience than CRWR 405.
Name: CRWR 490F Credits: 6 Desciption: The course will emphasize current trends and techniques rather than critical evaluation. Not offered every year.
Name: CRWR 490V Credits: 3 Desciption: The course will emphasize current trends and techniques rather than critical evaluation. Not offered every year.
Name: CRWR 501I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 501J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 501K Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 502J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 503I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 503J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 505I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 505J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 505K Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 506K Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 507I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 507J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 507K Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 508I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 508J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 509I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 509J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 514I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 514J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 514K Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 515J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 550J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 555K Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 570I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 570P Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CRWR 599 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: Meaning and impact of computational thinking. Solving problems using computational thinking, testing, debugging. How computers work. No prior computing experience required. Not for students with existing credit for or exemption from CPSC 110 or APSC 160.
Name: CPSC 103 Credits: 3 Desciption: Computation as a tool for systematic problem solving in non-computer-science disciplines. Introductory programming skills. Not for students with existing credit for or exemption from CPSC 110 or APSC 160. No programming experience expected.
Name: CPSC 110 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fundamental program and computation structures. Introductory programming skills. Computation as a tool for information processing, simulation and modeling, and interacting with the world.
Name: CPSC 121 Credits: 4 Desciption: Physical and mathematical structures of computation.  Boolean algebra and combinations logic circuits; proof techniques; functions and sequential circuits; sets and relations; finite state machines; sequential instruction execution.
Name: CPSC 210 Credits: 4 Desciption: Design, development, and analysis of robust software components. Topics such as software design, computational models, data structures, debugging, and testing.
Name: CPSC 213 Credits: 4 Desciption: Software architecture, operating systems, and I/O architectures.  Relationships between application software, operating systems, and computing hardware; critical sections, deadlock avoidance, and performance; principles and operation of disks and networks.
Name: CPSC 221 Credits: 4 Desciption: Design and analysis of basic algorithms and data structures; algorithm analysis methods, searching and sorting algorithms, basic data structures, graphs and concurrency.
Name: CPSC 259 Credits: 4 Desciption: Advanced procedural programming.  Fundamental algorithms for sorting and searching.  Data structures including lists, trees, and hash tables.  Introduction to scripting languages and file input/output.
Name: CPSC 261 Credits: 4 Desciption: Software architecture, operating systems, and I/O architectures.  Relationships between application software, operating systems, and computing hardware; critical sections, deadlock avoidance, and performance; principles and operation of disks and networks.
Name: CPSC 298 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in the computing industry for a minimum of 3.5 months. Normally taken during Winter Session of second year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Computer Science.
Name: CPSC 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic concepts, tools, and techniques for working with scientific data at larger scales, higher speeds, and lower costs that would otherwise be impossible. Applications and examples drawn from the life sciences. No prior computing background is required. Not for credit for students who have credit for any of the following: APSC 160, Computer Science AP, IB Computer Science, EOSC 211, or 3 credits of CPSC beyond CPSC 101.
Name: CPSC 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Numerical techniques for basic mathematical processes involving no discretization, and their analysis. Solution of linear systems, including analysis of round-off errors; norms and condition number; introduction to iterative techniques in linear algebra, including eigenvalue problems; solution to nonlinear equations.
Name: CPSC 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Numerical techniques for basic mathematical processes involving discretization, and their analysis. Interpolation and approximation, including splines and least squares data fitting; numerical differentiation and integration; introduction to numerical initial value ordinary differential equations.
Name: CPSC 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: Overview of database systems, ER models, logical database design and normalization, formal relational query languages, SQL and other commercial languages,data warehouses, special topics.
Name: CPSC 310 Credits: 4 Desciption: Specification, design, implementation and maintenance of large, multi-module software systems. Principles, techniques, methodologies and tools for computer aided software engineering (CASE); human-computer interfaces, reactive systems, hardware-software interfaces and distributed applications.
Name: CPSC 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Comparative study of advanced programming language features. Statement types, data types, variable binding, parameter passing mechanisms. Methods for syntactic and semantic description of programming languages.
Name: CPSC 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of symbolic computing, using languages based upon first-order logic and the lambda calculus. Algorithms for implementing such languages. Applications to artificial intelligence and knowledge representation.
Name: CPSC 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: Instruction sets, pipelining, code optimization, caching, virtual memory management, dynamically linked libraries, exception processing, execution time of programs.
Name: CPSC 314 Credits: 3 Desciption: Human vision and colour; geometric transformations; algorithms for 2-D and 3-D graphics; hardware and system architectures; shading and lighting; animation.
Name: CPSC 317 Credits: 3 Desciption: Computer networking, basic communication protocols, network infrastructure and routing.  Common application-level protocols and principles associated with developing distributed applications.
Name: CPSC 319 Credits: 4 Desciption: The design, implementation, and test of a large software system, using a team approach.
Name: CPSC 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: Systematic study of basic concepts and techniques in the design and analysis of algorithms, illustrated from various problem areas. Topics include: models of computation; choice of data structures; graph-theoretic, algebraic, and text processing algorithms.
Name: CPSC 322 Credits: 3 Desciption: Problem-solving and planning; state/action models and graph searching. Natural language understanding Computational vision. Applications of artificial intelligence.
Name: CPSC 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Models of algorithms for dimensionality reduction, nonlinear regression, classification, clustering and unsupervised learning; applications to computer graphics, computer games, bio-informatics, information retrieval, e-commerce, databases, computer vision and artificial intelligence.
Name: CPSC 344 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic tools and techniques, teaching a systematic approach to interface design, task analysis, analytic and empirical evaluation methods.
Name: CPSC 349 Credits: 0 Desciption: Students will attend a series of research seminars presented by faculty members, produce a thesis proposal, and choose their honours thesis supervisor. Available to Honours students. Majors students with satisfactory standing may also be permitted to enrol.
Name: CPSC 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical database design, indexing, relational query processing and optimization, transaction processing, concurrency control, crash recovery, data warehouses, data cubes, views, special topics.
Name: CPSC 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Formulation and analysis of algorithms for continuous and discrete optimization problems; linear, nonlinear, network, dynamic, and integer optimization; large-scale problems; software packages and their implementation; duality theory and sensitivity.
Name: CPSC 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Specification, design, construction and validation of multi-version software systems.
Name: CPSC 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: A practical introduction to lexical analysis, syntactic analysis, type-checking, code generation and optimization. This will be used to design and implement a compiler for a small language.
Name: CPSC 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: Process synchronization and communication schemes, including message-passing and concepts of monitor and serializer. Virtual memory systems management and the problem of information sharing in such systems. The working set principle. Traps and interrupt handling. Elementary queuing theory and its application such as process scheduling, system balancing and load control. File systems and operating system design methodologies.
Name: CPSC 416 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts and design of distributed systems. Communication architecture and models for interprocess communication. Process migration, naming, distributed file systems, fault tolerance, and concurrency control.
Name: CPSC 418 Credits: 3 Desciption: Algorithms, architectures, and programming paradigms for parallel computation.  Shared memory, message passing, and data parallel architectures and programming models.  Parallel algorithms including reduce, scan, and sorting networks.  Reasoning about the correctness of parallel programs.  Performance analysis and measurement for parallel programs.
Name: CPSC 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: The study of advanced topics in the design and analysis of algorithms and associated data structures. Topics include algorithms for graph-theoretic; algebraic and geometric problems; algorithms on nonsequential models; complexity issues; approximation algorithms.
Name: CPSC 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Characterizations of computability (using machines, languages and functions). Universality, equivalence and Church's thesis. Unsolvable problems. Restricted models of computation. Finite automata, grammars and formal languages.
Name: CPSC 422 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and techniques underlying the design, implementation and evaluation of intelligent computational systems. Applications of artificial intelligence to natural language understanding, image understanding and computer-based expert and advisor systems. Advanced symbolic programming methodology.
Name: CPSC 424 Credits: 3 Desciption: Digital representation of curves and surfaces, including splines, subdivision surfaces and meshes. Principles, algorithms and mathematical foundations for  geometry representation in computer graphics, computer vision, fabrication, CAD/CAM, and medical imaging. Algorithms for acquisition, creation, representation, and processing of 3D shapes.
Name: CPSC 436D Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in a specific area within Computer Science. May be taken more than once for credit with permission of the department.
Name: CPSC 444 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design and evaluation methodologies and theories; formal models of the user including visual, motor, and information processing; advanced evaluation methods including laboratory experiments and field studies; HCI research frontiers.
Name: CPSC 445 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sequence alignment, phylogenetic tree reconstruction, prediction of RNA and protein structure, gene finding and sequence annotation, gene expression, and biomolecular computing.
Name: CPSC 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: Open ordinarily to students in Computer Science with at least a 72% average and the permission of the head of the department or designate. The course may consist of supervised reading, participation in a seminar, and one or more programming projects.
Name: CPSC 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: Open ordinarily to students in Computer Science with at least a 72% average and the permission of the head of the department or designate. The course may consist of supervised reading, participation in a seminar, and one or more programming projects.
Name: CPSC 448C Credits: 6 Desciption: Open ordinarily to students in Computer Science with at least a 72% average and the permission of the head of the department or designate. The course may consist of supervised reading, participation in a seminar, and one or more programming projects.
Name: CPSC 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: Under supervision of a faculty member, students investigate a research topic and prepare a thesis.
Name: CPSC 490 Credits: 3 Desciption: Self-directed, collaborative studies, in a group-learning environment, initiated and coordinated by senior undergraduate students with the supervision of a faculty advisor. Course structure, enrolment and delivery methods will comply with the "Handbook for Student Directed Seminars".
Name: CPSC 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 513 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 530P Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 532L Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 532R Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 532S Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 534L Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 536E Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 536F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 538A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 539F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 542G Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 547 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 554K Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 554Y Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 589 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CPSC 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: CPEN 211 Credits: 5 Desciption: Boolean algebra; combinational and sequential circuits; organization and operation of microcomputers, memory addressing modes, representation of information, instruction sets, machine and assembly language programming, systems programs, I/O structures, I/O interfacing and I/O programming, introduction to digital system design using microcomputers. Credit will be granted for only one of CPEN 211, CPEN 312, EECE 256, EECE 259 or EECE 355.
Name: CPEN 221 Credits: 4 Desciption: Design, implementation, reasoning about software systems: abstraction and specification of software, testing, verification, abstract data types, object-oriented design, type hierarchies, concurrent software design.
Name: CPEN 281 Credits: 3 Desciption: Written and oral communication in engineering. Technical description, report preparation, business correspondence, and oral presentation of technical material. Restricted to students in second year of Electrical and Computer Engineering programs. Credit will be granted for only one of ELEC 281, CPEN 281, BMEG 201 or APSC 201.
Name: CPEN 291 Credits: 6 Desciption: Design projects involving hardware (electronic devices and circuits, microcomputers) and software.
Name: CPEN 311 Credits: 4 Desciption: Advanced combinational and sequential electronic system design. Hardware specification, modeling, and simulation using hardware description languages (HDLs) and CAD tools. Design with programmable logic including FPGA's. Applications include complex state machines, microcontrollers, arithmetic circuits, and interface units. Credit will be granted for only one of EECE 353, CPEN 311 and EECE 379.
Name: CPEN 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Data representation in digital computers; boolean algebra; the design and optimization and implementation of combinatorial and sequential circuits; modern digital circuit technologies; memory and programmable logic devices; organization and operation of microcomputers; data/address bus organization; input-output interfacing. Credit will be granted for only one of EECE 355, CPEN 312, EECE 259, CPEN 211, and EECE 256.
Name: CPEN 321 Credits: 4 Desciption: Engineering practices for the development of non-trivial software-intensive systems including requirements specification, software architecture, implementation, verification, and maintenance. Iterative development. Recognized standards, guidelines, and models. Credit will only be granted for only one of CPSC 310, EECE 310, or CPEN 321.
Name: CPEN 331 Credits: 4 Desciption: Operating systems, their design and their implementation. Process concurrency, synchronization, communication and scheduling. Device drivers, memory management, virtual memory, file systems, networking and security.
Name: CPEN 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Operating systems principles, real-time systems, principles of concurrent and multi-threaded programming, information structures, introduction to object oriented analysis, design, and modeling using UML, testing of software systems.
Name: CPEN 391 Credits: 6 Desciption: Design and implementation of a hardware platform and software design and implementation at the operating system and application layers.  Project management skills. Effective presentations.
Name: CPEN 400A Credits: 4 Desciption: Lectures or projects on subjects of current interest.
Name: CPEN 400B Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures or projects on subjects of current interest.
Name: CPEN 400D Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures or projects on subjects of current interest.
Name: CPEN 400V Credits: 1 Desciption: Lectures or projects on subjects of current interest.
Name: CPEN 411 Credits: 4 Desciption: Modern processors, GPUs, and memory hierarchies; quantitative principles and instruction set design; pipelining, superscalar issue, out-of-order execution, branch prediction and speculation; memory hierarchies, caches, virtual addressing, prefetching, coherence, and consistency; multicores, VLIW, on-chip networks, and other advanced architectures. Credit will be granted for only one of CPSC 313 or EECE 476 or CPEN 411.
Name: CPEN 421 Credits: 4 Desciption: Advanced project planning, cost estimation and scheduling. Project management tools. Factors influencing productivity and success. Productivity metrics. Analysis of options and risk. Tools. Case studies.
Name: CPEN 431 Credits: 4 Desciption: Communications, processes, naming, synchronization, consistency and replication, fault tolerance, object-based middleware, and security technologies for distributed applications.
Name: CPEN 432 Credits: 4 Desciption: Multi-tasking; interrupt-driven systems; task scheduling; schedulability analysis; inter-process communication and synchronization; resource management; performance measurement; hardware/software integration; hardware/software tradeoffs; system reliability.
Name: CPEN 441 Credits: 4 Desciption: Practical issues for interfaces for modern software. Task analysis, user modeling, usability engineering, representations, metaphors, prototyping tools. Applications: interactive multimedia systems, engineering, scientific visualization, engineering design.
Name: CPEN 442 Credits: 4 Desciption: Security risks, threats, and vulnerabilities from technical perspectives; confidentiality, integrity, and hybrid policies; cryptography, access control, assurance, accountability, and engineering of secure systems.
Name: CPEN 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: Time-money relationships; economic analysis of alternatives including the effects of interest rates, inflation, depreciation, taxation and uncertainty; cost estimation and budgeting; financial analysis of engineering operations.
Name: CPEN 491 Credits: 10 Desciption: Design, analysis, and implementation of solutions in response to a real world computer engineering problem, provided by industry, research laboratories, or other suitable entities.  Includes coverage of topics such as project management.
Name: CPEN 492 Credits: 10 Desciption: Design, analysis, and implementation of solutions in response to a real world software engineering problem.  Projects are provided by industry, research laboratories, or other suitable entities.  Includes coverage of topics such as project management.
Name: CPEN 499A Credits: 3 Desciption: Project in electrical engineering or computer engineering involving design, experimental and/or computer simulation work as selected from topics supplied by faculty members. An individual project thesis is to be prepared according to specifications available from the departmental office.
Name: CPEN 499B Credits: 6 Desciption: Project in electrical engineering or computer engineering involving design, experimental and/or computer simulation work as selected from topics supplied by faculty members. An individual project thesis is to be prepared according to specifications available from the departmental office.
Name: CONS 101 Credits: 1 Desciption: Seminars on current natural resources conservation and forest sciences topics.
Name: CONS 127 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploration of innovative Earth observation and other geospatial technologies and how they allow us to better understand the changing Earth.
Name: CONS 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Conceptual foundations of conservation; means of conserving nature and natural resources.
Name: CONS 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to climate change through the lens of local landscapes and future scenarios, using visual media to communicate the underlying science and psychology, and engage communities in local climate change solutions.
Name: CONS 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current and topical issues, including genetic determinism, environmental DNA, genomics and climate change, revival of extinct species, and applications of genomics in natural environments.
Name: CONS 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental concepts in conservation science. Different philosophies, perspectives, and disciplines used in setting priorities for managing biodiversity at all scales.
Name: CONS 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to principles, practice and context of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) applied to forest management and natural resource conservation issues. Priority enrolment to students in the Faculty of Forestry.
Name: CONS 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: Issues the may be encountered in professional natural resources work with or for Aboriginal communities and organization, including contemporary issues of Aboriginal rights and title, traditional uses, and self-government.
Name: CONS 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: Energy as a global policy problem; current energy challenges; energy systems and energy analysis; the politics and policy of energy alternatives.
Name: CONS 449A Credits: 1 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry out directed studies of specific problems in natural resources conservation.
Name: CONS 449C Credits: 3 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry out directed studies of specific problems in natural resources conservation.
Name: CONS 449F Credits: 6 Desciption: In special cases and with the approval of the instructor concerned, a student may carry out directed studies of specific problems in natural resources conservation.
Name: CONS 451 Credits: 15 Desciption: Field methods, research and analysis, community oriented projects, and the interactions between biological and social aspects of conservation research. Students may not take any other courses in conjunction with CONS 451. Restricted to B.Sc.N. students in the fourth year of the Science and Management Major.
Name: CONS 452 Credits: 12 Desciption: Examination of global resources and sustainability via scenario evaluation, modelling, and prescription.
Name: CONS 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and tools needed for the selection and design of protected areas, the designation of land use types, and the management and conservation of wildland recreation resources.
Name: CONS 486 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of fish biology, population and community ecology necessary to understand conservation and management; overview of current issues, tactics and institutions involved with fisheries conservation and management.
Name: CONS 491 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and methods for planning urban and rural recreation and related tourism resources including analyzing recreation resources, applying policies and standards, developing park/recreation area management plans, and understanding benefits to human and community wellbeing and biodiversity.
Name: CONS 495 Credits: 3 Desciption: Impacts of wildlife on crop productivity in temperate and tropical environments, the resiliency of wildlife populations to conventional control methodology, adoption of innovative methods to reduce crop damage, and the impact of introduced species on native fauna.
Name: CONS 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: An independent study or research project of a subject of special interest to the student under the supervision of a staff member.
Name: CONS 504C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CONS 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMR 280 Credits: 3 Desciption: Entrepreneurial essentials from creating viable opportunities through building a founding team, strategic planning, going to market, fleshing out an organization and planning the future of the business.
Name: COMR 382 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental economic issues faced by entrepreneurs who want to commercialize innovations within start-ups and established firms.
Name: COMR 387 Credits: 3 Desciption: Financial issues encountered by those active on the investing side of entrepreneurship, such as working for banks, venture capital firms, or corporate venture organizations, or anyone interacting with entrepreneurs and private equity investors.
Name: COMM 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of all functional areas of business. Students will be introduced to the computer and internet tools commonly used in business. For non-Commerce students only.
Name: COMM 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: The different disciplines of business and their combination in management planning and decision-making.
Name: COMM 120 Credits: 3 Desciption: A broad introduction to the field of business and how the different disciplines within business interact and combine in business decision-making. For Master of Management - Dual Degree Option students only.
Name: COMM 202 Credits: 1 Desciption: Fundamentals of career management including effective resume and cover letter writing, performing well in interviews and learning about the recruiting cycles, networking and resources available at the Hari B. Varshney Business Career Centre.
Name: COMM 203 Credits: 3 Desciption: The role of employment relations in enterprise performance. Managing employees under statutory law, collective bargaining, and progressive human resource management. Key issues in forming, developing, and maintaining a work force. Credit will be granted for only one of COMM 203 or COMM 392.
Name: COMM 204 Credits: 3 Desciption: The design and management of systems to make products, provide services and deliver them to the end user. Credit will be granted for only one of COMM 204 or COMM 399.
Name: COMM 205 Credits: 3 Desciption: Overview of computer technology and terminology; use of computers as managerial and administrative tools; the management of computer resources and the influence of information technology within the organization. Credit will be granted for only one of COMM 205 or COMM 391.
Name: COMM 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: An experiential course covering a broad range of business writing and communications. Ethical challenges and issues will be presented throughout the course and form an integral part of the content, particularly in the major assignments and in-class activities.
Name: COMM 280 Credits: 3 Desciption: Entrepreneurial essentials from creating viable opportunities through building a founding team, strategic planning, going to market, fleshing out an organization and planning the future of the business.
Name: COMM 286V Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 290 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to decision models in business, including basic optimization, linear programming, probability, decision analysis, random variables, simulation, and solving decision problems using spreadsheet tools.
Name: COMM 291 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods and applications of statistics in business; data analysis, descriptive regression; data generation; sampling distributions; hypothesis testing; confidence intervals; two sample problems; inference in regression.
Name: COMM 292 Credits: 3 Desciption: Behaviour in organizations as it affects people as individuals, their relationships with others, their performance in groups and their effectiveness at work.
Name: COMM 293 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the construction and interpretation of financial reports prepared primarily for external use. Credit will be granted for only one of COMM 293 or COEC 293.
Name: COMM 294 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the development and use of accounting information for management planning and control and the development of cost information for financial reports.
Name: COMM 295 Credits: 3 Desciption: Economic foundations of managerial decision-making. Demand theory, cost and production, market structure, competitive strategy, organization of the firm, welfare-economic foundations of business regulation. Credit will be granted for only one of ECON 201, ECON 206, ECON 301, ECON 304, FRE 295 or COMM 295.
Name: COMM 296 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic considerations affecting the domestic and international marketing of goods and services.
Name: COMM 298 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduces the basic principles of financial valuation, including the time-value of money and the risk/return tradeoff. Develops tools for the quantitative analysis of corporate and/or individual financing and saving decisions, and of capital budgeting decisions. Credit will be granted for only one of COMM 298 or COEC 298.
Name: COMM 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines economic factors affecting the urban land market, with an emphasis on determinants of urban land values, the housing market, urban transportation, and land use policies.
Name: COMM 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: Evaluation of investment in real estate assets; proforma analysis, property and asset management, equity securitization, appraisal, and international real estate investment.
Name: COMM 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Social science research: theory, research design, methods, and criticism. For students in the Commerce Scholars Program only.
Name: COMM 320 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Preparation of financial statements and use of financial information contained in financial statements to make better decisions.
Name: COMM 321 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Effects of individual and group behaviour on organizational processes and outcomes. Application of relevant frameworks from the social sciences to particular organizational situations.
Name: COMM 329 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introductory examination of work organizations and the behaviour of individuals within them. Phenomena to be studied include organizational structure, environments, group processes, motivation and leadership (for non-Commerce students only).
Name: COMM 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to information technology related to business use. Design, implementation and application of Information Systems.
Name: COMM 336 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental concepts for moving into e-Business including: technology infrastructure; security; electronic payment systems; business-to-consumer and business-to business e-commerce; business models; strategy, behavioral and interface issues; legal and privacy concerns cases.
Name: COMM 337 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to object-oriented computer programming; computational thinking; program design; scripting; documentation techniques; file handling; database access; and web crawling techniques. Students will apply data structures and programming constructs to the development of business analytics and other related applications.
Name: COMM 353 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of accounting as a means of measurement and as an information system for external reporting purposes.
Name: COMM 354 Credits: 3 Desciption: The provision and analysis of cost accounting information that will assist management in making operating decisions and in evaluating operational performance. The utilization of statistical analysis and linear models is included.
Name: COMM 355 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of income tax from the standpoint of the individual and of business enterprise.
Name: COMM 362 Credits: 3 Desciption: The use of consumer research and theory in marketing and policy decisions. Psychological, sociological and economic theory and research relevant to consumer behaviour are considered.
Name: COMM 363 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analytical methods applicable to marketing management decision making; attention to strategic considerations linking analysis of consumer data, corporate data, environmental factors, and competitive response. The course makes extensive use of micro computers.
Name: COMM 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: The process of marketing research including topics such as problem/opportunity formulation, research objectives, data sources, research instrument design, sampling, data collection and processing and methods of data analysis.
Name: COMM 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of corporate enterprise decisions including capital budgeting; capital structure choice, and financial policies, tools, and valuation.
Name: COMM 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic concepts of finance, including security valuation, security markets, and financial decisions concerning risk and return. Credit will be granted for only one of COMM 371 or COEC 371.
Name: COMM 374 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to methodologies and evidence concerning the structure and operation of security markets and the valuation of financial securities including stocks, bonds, options and futures contracts; portfolio management, corporate finance and investment decisions.
Name: COMM 377 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structure, nature and institutions of foreign exchange markets, including spot, forward, futures, options, and offshore currency markets. Factors affecting exchange rates are also discussed. Credit will be granted for only one of COMM 377 or COEC 377.
Name: COMM 380 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience for a minimum of 3.5 months. Normally taken during the winter term of the third year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Commerce. Option-specific prerequisites apply.
Name: COMM 381 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience for a minimum of 3.5 months. Normally taken during the summer term of the third year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Commerce.
Name: COMM 382 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental economic issues faced by entrepreneurs who want to commercialize innovations within start-ups and established firms.
Name: COMM 386A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 386D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 386G Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 386I Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 386J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 386L Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 386R Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 386S Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 387 Credits: 3 Desciption: Financial issues encountered by those active on the investing side of entrepreneurship, such as working for banks, venture capital firms, or corporate venture organizations, or anyone interacting with entrepreneurs and private equity investors.
Name: COMM 388 Credits: 3 Desciption: Studio-based experience in thinking strategies and design processes applied to business innovation in the private, public, and social sectors. Emphasis on problem solving, co-creation, and innovation for external clients in a collaborative environment.
Name: COMM 389 Credits: 3 Desciption: The role and importance of creativity in developing successful business solutions.
Name: COMM 390 Credits: 3 Desciption: An activity-focused course providing the opportunity to study and practice forms of writing needed in business.
Name: COMM 393 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the law of contracts, with particular reference to contracts for sale of goods and related law of personal property; principles of agency, partnerships and company law.
Name: COMM 394 Credits: 3 Desciption: Roles of government and business in the Canadian economy including effects of public policy on the business environment. Ethical foundations of government, business and personal decision-making. Credit will be granted for only one of COEC 394 or COMM 394.
Name: COMM 395 Credits: 3 Desciption: Understanding non-written communications in day-to-day business.
Name: COMM 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: The design and management of systems that efficiently and effectively supply products and services to the end-user. The concepts apply to a variety of settings such as manufacturing, logistics, healthcare, and others (For non-Commerce students only).
Name: COMM 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: The role of mortgage markets, mathematical analysis of return and valuation issue and methods of dealing with lender and borrower risk exposure.
Name: COMM 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: The economics of real estate markets. Topics include real estate cycles and bubbles, search models and vacancy, the relationship between real estate and the economy, housing demand, and models of housing supply.
Name: COMM 408 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development process from theories of development, market analysis, site selection, project design, land use regulation and financial analysis.
Name: COMM 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Negotiation simulations to provide experience and confidence in the negotiation process and to develop effective skills for achieving objectives.
Name: COMM 414 Credits: 3 Desciption: Descriptive analytics including data analysis and visualization. Predictive analytics including forecasting and various statistical techniques. Predictive analytics including optimization, Monte Carlo simulation, decision trees, and discrete event simulation.
Name: COMM 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: Quantitative evaluation of public policies using statistical evaluation methods, cost benefit, and effectiveness analyses. Public policies affecting service provision and infrastructure investment in air, rail, marine, public transit, and pipelines evaluated on pricing, operating costs, productivity, safety, security, and the environment.
Name: COMM 420 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Basic considerations affecting the domestic and international marketing of goods and services. Analytical frameworks and techniques that are used to guide marketing strategy decisions.
Name: COMM 421 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Introduces the basic principles of financial valuation, including the time-value of money and the risk/return tradeoff. Develops tools for the quantitative analysis of corporate and/or individual financing and saving decisions, and of capital budgeting decisions.
Name: COMM 431 Credits: 3 Desciption: The application of various statutes to business entities including corporations, partnerships, societies, co-operatives, credit unions, trust companies and banks; the consequences of bankruptcy on legal entities.
Name: COMM 434 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal principles and concepts relating to real estate and land development.
Name: COMM 436 Credits: 3 Desciption: The process of information systems development; modern techniques and tools for systems analysis and design.
Name: COMM 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and technology of database management from an applications perspective; database design; database administration. Credit will not be granted for both COMM 437 and CPSC 304.
Name: COMM 438 Credits: 3 Desciption: Managerial issues in the administration of computerized information systems.
Name: COMM 439 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic data communications concepts and technology; local area, wide area, and enterprise networks; the Internet; wireless networking; network development life cycle; network security and management.
Name: COMM 443 Credits: 3 Desciption: This primarily case-based course will cover service operations in general (50%), health care operations (25%), and revenue management (25%). Applications of queuing models will be included in both services in general and healthcare.
Name: COMM 444 Credits: 3 Desciption: An integrative treatment of air transport management including: demand analysis, sales and marketing, globalization trends, aircraft selection and fleet planning; airport economics and management.
Name: COMM 445 Credits: 3 Desciption: The characteristics of shipping services and the role of shipping services in the design and management of international logistics systems.
Name: COMM 447 Credits: 3 Desciption: Evaluation of transport projects in the private and public sector; cost benefit analysis and related framework; project management, financing transport infrastructure.
Name: COMM 449 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integrated management of production and logistics systems; management of inter-organizational  relationships in the supply chain, including vendor selection, bidding and negotiation processes, partnering and performance measurement.
Name: COMM 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Intermediate II. Continuation of the examination of accounting as a means of measurement and as an information system for external reporting purposes.
Name: COMM 452 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of business and financial decisions in the presence of taxes.
Name: COMM 453 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of advanced financial accounting.
Name: COMM 454 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design of accounting systems for facilitating and influencing management decisions, with emphasis on performance evaluation in organizations.
Name: COMM 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of internal control, audit evidence, sampling and testing; audit reports; standards; responsibilities of the external auditor.
Name: COMM 457 Credits: 3 Desciption: Financial accounting for business organizations; principles and problems of accounting measurements; forms of business organizations; financing of businesses. (For non-Commerce students only).
Name: COMM 458 Credits: 3 Desciption: Use of accounting data in decision making by businesses; financial statement analysis; cash flows; cost behaviour patterns; methods of accounting for costs. (For non-Commerce students only).
Name: COMM 459 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of financial statement information from the perspective of decision makers external to the firm, e.g., investors and financial institutions.
Name: COMM 460 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines the role, use, and application of marketing in government agencies and nonprofit institutions.
Name: COMM 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and practice of personal selling and leadership of teams: strategy, tactics, and implementation.
Name: COMM 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: Marketing communication campaign strategy, conceptual framework, and practical application for integrated marketing communications, including advertising.
Name: COMM 464 Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of Internet-based marketing, emphasizing customer-focused perspectives, competitive situations and analysis of the effectiveness of business websites using marketing principles and practices.
Name: COMM 465 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic considerations affecting the domestic and international marketing of goods and services. (For non-Commerce students only).
Name: COMM 466 Credits: 6 Desciption: Teams comprising students in COMM 466 and APSC 486 propose a new product, produce a viable prototype, and develop a business plan for the marketplace.  Credit may only be obtained for one of COMM 466 and APSC 486.
Name: COMM 467 Credits: 3 Desciption: Issues and challenges commonly faced by brand managers, including: assessing brand meaning, evaluating brand health, assessing a brand?s leverage potential, evaluating brand extensions, managing brands through a crisis, and assessing brand value.
Name: COMM 468 Credits: 3 Desciption: Applied marketing planning with emphasis on a major industrial analysis and the subsequent development of a detailed marketing plan for an operating organization.
Name: COMM 469 Credits: 3 Desciption: An analysis of the scope and significance of contemporary international business operations with particular reference to the marketing management problems encountered by firms with multinational branches and subsidiaries.
Name: COMM 471 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mergers and acquisitions as a focal point in making important corporate decisions deduced from careful study of relevant business cases.
Name: COMM 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to managerial finance, including the role and functioning of financial markets, procurement of funds and financing strategies, dividend policy, capital budgeting and financial analysis and planning. (For non-Commerce students only).
Name: COMM 474 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fixed income instruments and derivatives. Risk profiles and their use in establishing fixed income investment portfolios. Performance attribution techniques.
Name: COMM 475 Credits: 3 Desciption: The management of security portfolios for individual and institutional investors; relation of investment policy to money markets and business fluctuations.
Name: COMM 477 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of financial engineering and risk management. Use of derivatives in risk management. Valuation and hedging models for contingent claims.
Name: COMM 480 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience for a minimum of 35 months. Normally taken during the summer term of the fourth year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative. Education Program in Commerce.
Name: COMM 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience for a minimum of 35 months. Normally taken during the fall term of the fourth year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Commerce.
Name: COMM 482 Credits: 3 Desciption: How new products are developed and the factors that influence success and failure throughout the various stages of development.
Name: COMM 483 Credits: 6 Desciption: Integration and application of business knowledge to make business decisions across disciplines; development of personal leadership ability and style. Case-based with guest speakers.
Name: COMM 484 Credits: 3 Desciption: Role of marketing in creating social value. Integration of marketing fundamentals with core social, environmental, and economic principles of sustainability. Analysis of current sustainability trends. Development of strategic and practical marketing recommendations for for-profit enterprises. Potential and pitfalls of sustainability marketing.
Name: COMM 485 Credits: 3 Desciption: An applied course that examines the innovative, growing, and rapidly evolving field of social entrepreneurship, which tackles social and environmental challenges through business perspectives and methods.
Name: COMM 486D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 486H Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 486M Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 486N Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 486Q Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 486W Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 487 Credits: 3 Desciption: Explores corporate environmental strategy by introducing economic principles underlying environmental policy, law, and technologies for pollution prevention and abatement, environmental management systems, ISO-14001, energy systems, eco-marketing, and life-cycle analysis.  Credit will be granted for only one of COMM 487 or COMM 597.
Name: COMM 490A Credits: 3 Desciption: An investigation and report on a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and a senior student.
Name: COMM 490D Credits: 3 Desciption: An investigation and report on a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and a senior student.
Name: COMM 491 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts and processes for the strategic management of private sector, single and multi-business unit enterprises are analysed using the case method. Methodologies which draw on economic and organizational theory are integrated to form the foundations for strategic analyses.
Name: COMM 493 Credits: 3 Desciption: A conceptual and practical introduction to the major areas of business strategy with an integrative perspective on managing a business. Includes the analysis of a business and its environment, the development and evaluation of strategic alternatives, and implementation of change (For non-Commerce students only in fourth year).
Name: COMM 497 Credits: 3 Desciption: The particular problems and experiences encountered in starting, developing and managing new enterprises. The course includes lectures, guest speakers, and case studies.
Name: COMM 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of general environmental framework for international business studies by drawing on international and development economics, research into government-business relations and studies in comparative socio-cultural systems and political systems. Credit will be granted for only one of COMM 498 or COEC 498.
Name: COMM 547 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 547A Credits: 4.5 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 547B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 548 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 549B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 590A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 590B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 597 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of COMM 487 or COMM 597.
Name: COMM 612 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 616 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 625A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 635 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 655 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 657 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 663 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 671 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 672 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 682 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 692 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 693 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COMM 695 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: COHR 301 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Balancing organizational, personal, and community interests in a global economy. In addition to standard management textbooks and readings, the class will draw from the work of poets, fiction writers, essayists, and social critics.
Name: COHR 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Processes of workforce recruitment, selection, retention, and renewal. Includes human resources planning, development of an effective staffing strategy and employer brand, job analysis and descriptions, cost-benefit analysis of various recruiting methods, analysis and evaluation of selection methods.
Name: COHR 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: Employee training, development and performance management in a variety of employment settings. Application of various training methods to performance enhancement, performance appraisal, feedback, and empirical evaluation of training investments.
Name: COHR 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Employee compensation, including pay systems, benefits systems, and rewards and recognition programs. Examination of the motivational underpinnings of compensation administration and the application of compensation principles to the achievement of employer strategic objectives.
Name: COHR 401 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: The tactics and strategies for implementing constructive modifications in organizations.
Name: COHR 402 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Explores the characteristics of effective leadership and examines how to be a better leader.
Name: COHR 404 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Examines the sources and consequences of power in the context of different corporate and national cultures.
Name: COHR 408 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Techniques and approaches for evaluating and adjusting the structures of organization.
Name: COHR 411 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Techniques and approaches for building effective teams, handling decision-making in teams, creating reward structures, and developing appropriate leadership models.
Name: COHR 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to legislation and application of legal principles that govern the employment relationship.
Name: COHR 486B Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: COHR 486D Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: COGS 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interdisciplinary examination of human mental processes and how these are mediated by the brain. Will draw on cognitive psychology, linguistics, cognitive neuroscience, philosophy, artificial intelligence.
Name: COGS 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and methods for integrating diverse disciplinary content in cognitive systems.
Name: COGS 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination and comparison of the research methodologies of different disciplines relevant to cognitive systems.
Name: COGS 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interdisciplinary seminar integrating theory, methods, and current research topics.
Name: COGS 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supervised research project in a Cognitive Systems-related laboratory.
Name: COEC 293 Credits: 3 Desciption: Construction and interpretation of financial reports prepared primarily for external use. Credit will be granted for only one of COEC 293 or COMM 293.
Name: COEC 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: The process of marketing research including problem/opportunity formulation, research objectives, data sources, research instrument design, sampling, data collection and processing and methods of data analysis.
Name: COEC 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: Corporate enterprise decisions including capital budgeting; capital structure choice; and financial policies, tools, and valuation.
Name: COEC 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic concepts of finance, including security valuation, security markets, and financial decisions concerning risk and return. Credit will be granted for only one of COEC 371 or COMM 371.
Name: COEC 377 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structure, nature and institutions of foreign exchange markets, including spot, forward, futures, options, and offshore currency markets. Factors affecting exchange rates are also discussed. Credit will be granted for only one of COEC 377 or COMM 377.
Name: COEC 491 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts and processes for the strategic management of single- and multi-business unit private sector enterprises, analyzed using the case method. Integrates methodologies from economic and organizational theory to form the foundations for strategic analyses.
Name: COEC 497 Credits: 3 Desciption: The particular problems and experiences encountered in starting, developing, and managing new enterprises. The course includes lectures, guest speakers, and case studies.
Name: COEC 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of general environmental framework for international business studies by drawing on international and development economics, research into government-business relations and studies in comparative socio-cultural systems and political systems. Credit will be granted for only one of COEC 498 or COMM 498.
Name: CNTO 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Elementary level (part I) course in Cantonese for non-heritage learners with no prior exposure to or background in Cantonese. Focus on training for basic listening and conversational skills in Cantonese.
Name: CNTO 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Elementary level (part II) Cantonese for non-heritage learners. Continuation of CNTO 301. Focus on training for basic listening, conversational, and reading skills.
Name: CNTO 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic oral and presentation skills in Cantonese. This is an accelerated course that covers content and topics similar to CNTO 301 and CNTO 303, but is structured specifically for heritage speakers of Mandarin.
Name: CNTO 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Intermediate lower level (part I) Cantonese for non-heritage learners.
Name: CNTO 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: Popular culture in Hong Kong from media such as television, cinema, popular music, literature, social media, etc., through advanced authentic Cantonese listening and reading materials.  Open to non-heritage and heritage speakers of Mandarin and/or Cantonese.
Name: CNRS 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: Origins, nature, and transmission of myth in the Western tradition, with particular attention devoted to the interpretation of myth from ancient times up to the present. Some background in myth is recommended.
Name: CNRS 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of the archaeology of ancient Cyprus from the island's initial colonization in the 10th millennium BCE through the period of its rule as part of the Roman Empire (4th century CE).
Name: CNRS 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CNRS 500B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CNRS 503B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CNRS 503D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CNRS 504A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CNRS 549 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CNPS 362 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of basic interviewing skills for counselling and guidance.
Name: CNPS 363 Credits: 3 Desciption: Critical survey of career counselling theory and practice.
Name: CNPS 364 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of current theories and practices in family education and consultation.
Name: CNPS 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: An overview of selected theories of counselling.
Name: CNPS 426 Credits: 6 Desciption: This course is designed to assist the teacher in understanding and using guidance techniques for day-to-day use in the classroom. The emphasis will be on techniques for working with people towards better self-understanding and better perspectives of alternatives.
Name: CNPS 427 Credits: 3 Desciption: The work of the beginning counsellor and guidance worker in assisting students with educational, vocational, and personal planning and decision-making.
Name: CNPS 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: Personal and social adjustment issues for professional counsellors; basic skills necessary for effective group counselling.
Name: CNPS 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory, research, and practice of counselling adolescents.
Name: CNPS 524 Credits: 3 Desciption: Major issues and problems of adult development. Selection of appropriate counselling interventions for use in education and other counselling settings.
Name: CNPS 532A Credits: 3 Desciption: The use of standardized measures of mental ability, achievement, aptitude, interest and personality.
Name: CNPS 532B Credits: 3 Desciption: The use of standardized measures of mental ability, achievement, aptitude, interest and personality.
Name: CNPS 534 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory, research, and practice in the area of gender and sex role issues related to counselling.
Name: CNPS 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CNPS 545 Credits: 3 Desciption: Main theoretical and therapeutic approaches of contemporary family counselling with emphasis on intervention and critical research issues in educational and other counselling settings.
Name: CNPS 564 Credits: 3 Desciption: Understanding, designing and knowledge of groups and how to conduct them for use in counselling and guidance services.
Name: CNPS 574 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory, research, and practice of career planning and decision counselling.
Name: CNPS 578C Credits: 6 Desciption: Major counselling theories, interventions for change and corresponding skill development.
Name: CNPS 579 Credits: 3 Desciption: Assumptions and methods of major research paradigms.
Name: CNPS 580A Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: CNPS 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: CNPS 580C Credits: 6 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: CNPS 584 Credits: 3 Desciption: Designing, implementing and assessing counselling programs in schools, colleges, universities, and other counselling settings.
Name: CNPS 586 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ethical decision-making and legal issues in counselling psychology research and practice.
Name: CNPS 588C Credits: 6 Desciption: Initial counselling experience under faculty supervision in department training centres.
Name: CNPS 588H Credits: 6 Desciption: Initial counselling experience under faculty supervision in department training centres.
Name: CNPS 595 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories, research, and applications of psychosocial stress and coping processes, with a particular focus on counselling issues and contexts related to trauma and addictions.
Name: CNPS 598C Credits: 6 Desciption: For students in the master's program. Pass/Fail.
Name: CNPS 598H Credits: 6 Desciption: For students in the master's program. Pass/Fail.
Name: CNPS 599C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CNPS 632 Credits: 3 Desciption: Counselling psychology research and practice in adult personality assessment, including ethics of testing and use with special populations.
Name: CNPS 669A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CNPS 678A Credits: 3 Desciption: Major theoretical traditions in Counselling Psychology and illustration of the links among theory, research and practices; perspectives on Counselling Psychology as a distinct field of specialization.
Name: CNPS 688 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervision requires both knowledge of supervision models and practices, and skills to implement them. This course involves a seminar and practicum to integrate the two requirements of the subject. (For those on the Doctoral program.) Pass/Fail.
Name: CNPS 698 Credits: 6 Desciption: A 1600-hour supervised internship in Counselling Psychology. Internship sites offer counselling services as detailed in the "Speciality Guidelines for the Delivery of Services by Counselling Psychologists" (APA). Pass/Fail.
Name: CNPS 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: CLST 105 Credits: 3 Desciption: Greek and Roman mythology and its interpretation. Emphasis on ancient texts read in English translation.
Name: CLST 110 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history and culture, values, and achievements of fifth-century Athens.
Name: CLST 111 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history and culture, values, and achievements of Late Republican and Early Imperial Rome.
Name: CLST 204 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the material cultures of the pre-classical and classical civilizations of Greece and Rome, illustrating the principles and techniques used to illuminate the archaeological history of these civilizations.
Name: CLST 211 Credits: 3 Desciption: The Pre-Socratics; Socrates; Sophists; Plato. Recommended as preparation for CLST/PHIL 212 and PHIL 310.
Name: CLST 212 Credits: 3 Desciption: Aristotle; selections from Hellenistic and Late Antique Philosophy. Recommended as preparation for PHIL 310 and PHIL 311.
Name: CLST 231 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the ancient Greek world from the Minoan and Mycenaean (about 2000-1000 BCE) to the Hellenistic Period (323-30 BCE).
Name: CLST 232 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the ancient Roman world from the foundation of the city to the death of Constantine.
Name: CLST 260 Credits: 3 Desciption: History, development, and social function of various forms of spectacle in ancient Greece and Rome, from the Olympic games to the Roman arena.
Name: CLST 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Acquaints the student with the Greek and Latin elements from which most specialized terms of modern medicine are constructed. Intended primarily for students planning to enter the medical, pharmaceutical, or biological sciences.
Name: CLST 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: The origins and achievements of applied technology in the Greek and Roman world from the Bronze Age to late Antiquity, with special attention to archaeological evidence.
Name: CLST 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: The study of Greek legal theory, practice, and institutions from their origin in self-help, through the early lawgivers and their codes, to the developed system of Athens in the fifth and fourth centuries. A variety of test cases from the works of the Greek orators will be explored.
Name: CLST 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Women  in the Roman world in the culture of the Republic and the Empire. Literary, artistic, and mythological sources are compared and contrasted to historical, legal, and archaeological records.
Name: CLST 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, in translation.
Name: CLST 317 Credits: 3 Desciption: The plays of the Greek and Roman tragic dramatists, in translation.
Name: CLST 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the visual culture of the ancient Greek world in the second and first millennia BCE, especially from c. 1000 to 30 BCE.
Name: CLST 332 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the visual culture of the ancient Roman world from the 8th century BCE to the 4th century CE.
Name: CLST 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of both traditional and exoteric religious practices from the Archaic to the Hellenistic period.  Some knowledge of ancient Greece is recommended.
Name: CLST 353 Credits: 3 Desciption: Roman imperial history during the Julio-Claudian and Flavian periods (30 BC-96 AD).
Name: CLST 355 Credits: 3 Desciption: The sources (literary, epigraphical and other) for Athens' emergence as one of the two leading city-states in late archaic and classical Greece and the stages by which her empire grew.
Name: CLST 356 Credits: 3 Desciption: The rise of Macedon under Philip II leading to its domination of Greece and the overthrow of the Persian Empire by his son, Alexander; the subsequent spread of Greek civilization in the East.
Name: CLST 402A Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in Greek or Roman literature, with an emphasis on research. Restricted to majors and honours students in CLST, CLAS, CLAH, ARGR, GRNE, CNRS.
Name: CLST 403A Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in Greek or Roman art and archaeology, with an emphasis on research. Restricted to majors and honours students in CLST, CLAS, CLAH, ARGR, GRNE, CNRS.
Name: CLST 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of the topography and monuments of ancient Athens from the Bronze Age to Late Antiquity. Offered in the first term of alternate years.
Name: CLST 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of the topography and monuments of ancient Rome from the Iron Age to Late Antiquity. Offered in the second term of alternate years.
Name: CLST 518A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CLCH 389 Credits: 3 Desciption: The basics of classical Chinese grammar, with short illustrations from texts of the Warring States and early Han Period. Credit will be granted for only one of CLCH 389 or ASIA 389.
Name: CIVL 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Implications of a finite biosphere and the complexities inherent in environmental decision-making.
Name: CIVL 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: The design process; graphical, visualization and computational tools; civil engineering disciplines; decision-making; teamwork; conceptual design project reflecting community, economic, environmental, sustainability and technical considerations.
Name: CIVL 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: The social and biophysical context of infrastructure and the impact of technologies on people, the economy, and the environment. Specific topics vary from year to year.
Name: CIVL 210 Credits: 4 Desciption: Soil classification, principle of effective stress, analysis of seepage, filter criteria, introduction to shear strength and slope stability analysis.
Name: CIVL 215 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fluid properties, hydrostatics, kinematics, and fluid dynamics: energy and momentum methods with applications. Dimensional analysis, modelling, introduction to flow in pipes and forces on immersed objects.
Name: CIVL 228 Credits: 4 Desciption: Static determinacy, stability, superposition, analysis and design of trusses, deflection of trusses by principles of virtual work, statically indeterminate trusses, beams and frames, cables and arches, design objectives, loads and load combinations, structural safety, load paths, design of simple steel, timber, and reinforced concrete members.
Name: CIVL 230 Credits: 4 Desciption: Stress and strain, Hooke's law, axially loaded members, torsion, shear forces and bending moments in beams, bending of beams, shear stresses in beams, shear centre, composite members, introduction to elasto-plastic and statically indeterminate problems.
Name: CIVL 231 Credits: 3 Desciption: Deflection of beams, combined axial load and bending moment, inelastic bending, plastic analysis of structures, beam-columns, buckling (stability), principal axes and principal moments of inertia, biaxial stress and strain, Mohrs circle.
Name: CIVL 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Project delivery systems: traditional; construction management; turnkey; project management. Network planning methods. Activity planning, including construction methods selection. Estimating, bidding and bonding. Project control tools and procedures. Human resources, including equity considerations; occupational health and safety and quality control.
Name: CIVL 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Review of numerical methods; introduction to systems engineering; application of optimization, probability, and decision-making to civil engineering systems and projects.
Name: CIVL 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: Environmental engineering issues and projects; application of scientific and engineering principles to addressing these; soil, water and air pollution, and remediation.
Name: CIVL 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Environmental ethics and legislation; risk assessment; urban water sources and sinks; water pollutants and impacts; mass balance and reactor design concepts; water and wastewater treatment; the environmental impact assessment process.
Name: CIVL 311 Credits: 4 Desciption: One-dimensional compression and stress-strain response of soils with application to estimation of the settlements and capacities of foundations and of retaining walls.
Name: CIVL 315 Credits: 4 Desciption: Two dimensional flow around immersed objects; velocity and pressure fields; lift and drag on cylinders and aerofoils; fluid loads on structures and structural response; pumps and turbines; analysis and design of pipeline systems; unsteady flow in pipes; frictionless waterhammer analysis.
Name: CIVL 316 Credits: 4 Desciption: Introduction to open channel hydraulics, engineering hydrology, and water resource systems; estimation of design discharge; flood statistics; nonuniform steady open channel flow; energy and momentum principles, backwater analysis; culvert and bridge hydraulics.
Name: CIVL 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: The structure and properties of common Civil Engineering materials: aggregates, Portland cement, concrete, asphalt, timber and metals. The emphasis is on the relationship between the structure of materials and their mechanical properties.
Name: CIVL 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to limit states design of steel and timber structures: material properties, design of tension and compression members, beams, columns, and connections.
Name: CIVL 332 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to indeterminate structural analysis; approximate analysis of structures; calculation of displacements using virtual work; flexibility (force) method; stiffness method for frames; moment distribution method; introduction to structural dynamics.
Name: CIVL 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: The analysis and design of the elements of transportation facilities in development of transport technology; vehicle motion; vehicle/pavement interaction; elements of road design; principles of queuing and roadway capacity; rail transit performance and capacity analysis; economics as applied to transport.
Name: CIVL 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: The Engineers and Geoscientists Act; professional ethics, conflicts of interest, confidentiality and accountability; health and safety; sustainable development and environmental stewardship; equity considerations; design and construction contracts, specifications and tendering; labour and employment law; dispute resolution; evidence and expert witnesses; torts and legal liability.
Name: CIVL 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Time value of money; cash flow analysis; comparing options; depreciation, taxes, and inflation; financial accounting; company structures; public sector projects; decision-making.
Name: CIVL 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Processes used in water and wastewater treatment. Conditions which necessitate treatment of water or wastewater, water and wastewater treatment processes and plant design. Municipal services required and associated with solid waste management.
Name: CIVL 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: Testing procedures used in water quality studies and in the operation of water and wastewater treatment plants.
Name: CIVL 408 Credits: 3 Desciption: Environmental contamination, regulatory requirements, site investigation, migration of contaminants, containment systems, site remediation technologies, design considerations related to soil-contaminant interactions, hydrogeology, geochemistry and types of contaminants. Design and performance case histories.
Name: CIVL 409 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design of municipal infrastructure, including streets, water supply networks, and sewers, garbage collection and solid waste management. Focus is on solutions for providing an adequate water supply, collecting and disposing of stormwater and sewage, and managing excess stormwater flow.
Name: CIVL 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the process of foundation engineering. Empirical and analytical approaches used in current professional practice. Topics include site investigation, preloading, liquefaction assessment, ground improvement, design of shallow and deep foundations, and retaining structures. The importance of geology and technical communication are emphasized.
Name: CIVL 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: Aspects of Geotechnical Engineering. Design considerations illustrated by case histories pertinent to BC. Topics include: site investigation, terrain analyses, in situ testing, groundwater problems, deep foundations, tie back walls and bracing, tailings impoundments, Northern construction, ground ice, dikes and dams engineering. Many case histories presented in part by prominent consulting engineers in BC.
Name: CIVL 413 Credits: 3 Desciption: Purpose and types of dams; design criteria; construction sequence; compaction; seepage; filter design; factors influencing the design of earth dams; stability and deformation under static and earthquake loading; slope protection; field instrumentation.
Name: CIVL 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the planning and design of water resource systems, stream systems, and municipal and hydropower engineering.
Name: CIVL 416 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of hydraulic engineering principles to problems of environmental concern. Pollutant transport and dispersion. Mixing in rivers and lakes. Theory of jets and plumes. Design of outfall diffusers.
Name: CIVL 417 Credits: 3 Desciption: General discussion of waves; linear wave theory; finite amplitude waves; standing waves; seiches; harbour design; wave shoaling, refraction and diffraction; beaches and coasts; wave statistics; wave generation; wave forces on piles, walls and breakwaters; tides; instrumentation and modelling techniques.
Name: CIVL 418 Credits: 3 Desciption: Hydrologic processes - weather, precipitation, infiltration, evaporation, snowmelt and runoff generation. Emphasis on quantitative techniques including: hydrograph analysis, reservoir and channel routing, statistical methods and design floods, hydrologic modelling.
Name: CIVL 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical and chemical properties and microstructure of hydrated Portland cement; construction practices; modern use of industrial by-products such as fly ash, blast furnace slag, silica fume and metakaolin; use of chemical admixtures; environmental issues; properties of hardened concrete; issues in standardized and accelerated testing, non-destructive testing.
Name: CIVL 422 Credits: 3 Desciption: Some topical problems will be identified and students in groups will carry out experiments to study the materials involved. Site visits and external consultations are an integral requirement.
Name: CIVL 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: Identification and evaluation of solutions to construction site operation problems: the relationship between design and construction; factors affecting productivity and safety; measurement of on-site performance. Credit will be granted for only one of CIVL 425 or CIVL 493.
Name: CIVL 426 Credits: 3 Desciption: Creation and use of building information models (BIM) for managing the construction process.  3D parametric modeling, 4D modeling, design coordination, model-based cost estimating, BIM performance measurement, and integrated project delivery methods.
Name: CIVL 430 Credits: 4 Desciption: Non-linear response of reinforced concrete members subjected to axial load, bending and shear; design of simple one-way members including beams, columns, slabs and footings.
Name: CIVL 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design of steel structures to resist vertical and lateral loads. Floor and roof systems including conceptual layout, floor deck, beams, joists, trusses, and columns. Stability issues and limit states design. Connections and construction aspects. Seismic design.
Name: CIVL 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design of continuous reinforced concrete building frames and structures.
Name: CIVL 435 Credits: 3 Desciption: Shear flow, shear deformation, St. Venant torsion, warping torsion, P-delta and geometric stiffness, buckling of columns and frames, cylindrical shells, beams on elastic foundation, shear wall analysis, elasto-plastic analysis. Introduction to the finite element method.
Name: CIVL 436 Credits: 3 Desciption: Further techniques in matrix structural analysis; non-rigid supports, temperature-shrinkage effects, computer implementation; matrix representation of structural dynamics; mode shapes, natural frequencies, continuous systems; lumped mass models, modal analysis, response spectra.
Name: CIVL 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structural theory and practice of ship structural design; longitudinal and transverse strength of hull girder; plates and shells; matrix analysis; introduction to classification society rules; ship section design synthesis; finite element analysis.
Name: CIVL 439 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design of timber structural elements using limit states design principles; joints and fasteners, sawn lumber and engineered wood products, light frame systems and shear walls.
Name: CIVL 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Traffic operations and network analysis: traffic studies and data design; traffic stream flow and roadway analysis; weaving and interchange ramp analysis; intersection traffic control measures and control design; progressive signal system design; flows prediction; road network simulation and assignment algorithms; motor vehicle accident analysis; field exercises.
Name: CIVL 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: Transportation systems planning and analysis: data needs; surveys and analysis; sampling techniques; trip generation; trip distribution; modal choice; trip assignment; traffic impact studies; system evaluation. Credit will be granted for only one of CIVL 441, CIVL 583 or PLAN 535.
Name: CIVL 445 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integration and application of previously acquired knowledge and skills to find design solutions.  Focus on conceptual designs.
Name: CIVL 446 Credits: 2 Desciption: Integration and application of previously acquired knowledge and skills to find design solutions.  Extends the conceptual design of CIVL 445 into detailed design projects.
Name: CIVL 478 Credits: 3 Desciption: Building science concepts associated with the design of modern buildings, focusing particularly on the building envelope's role in environmental separation, controlling the movement of heat, air, and water in liquid and vapour states.
Name: CIVL 498A Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminar or lecture. Registration will take place on the first day of class by the Instructor.
Name: CIVL 504 Credits: 2 Desciption: Causes of earthquakes. Fault mechanisms. Wave motions. Magnitudes and intensities. Regional seismicity and risk analysis. Attenuation of ground motion parameters with distance. Development of site specific ground motions. Selection of earthquake records and construction of design spectra.
Name: CIVL 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: Response of structures to earthquakes; concept of ductility; development of seismic design codes. Hierarchy of analytical tools; quasi-static, modal, and nonlinear analyses. Modelling of structures. Soil-structure interaction.
Name: CIVL 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental analysis of simple structures subjected to dynamic loadings; vibration problems in structures; linear and nonlinear structural response of simple systems; numerical methods for practical vibration analysis.
Name: CIVL 508 Credits: 3 Desciption: Dynamic response of discrete and continuous systems; structural property matrices and eigenvalue problem; introduction to random vibrations; wave propagation analysis; experimental techniques and computer modelling.
Name: CIVL 509 Credits: 3 Desciption: Nonlinear behaviour of structures and the formulation of elements to model such behaviour; solution strategies; nonlinear material and section response; nonlinear dynamic analysis; nonlinear geometry; application of nonlinear analysis in engineering practice.
Name: CIVL 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: Seismic design of steel buildings; composite design; welding of steel; corrosion protection; application of CAD in steel design.
Name: CIVL 513 Credits: 3 Desciption: Response of prestressed and non-prestressed concrete elements and structures; comparison of analytical predictions and experimental results; simplified design procedures.
Name: CIVL 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: Behaviour of timber structural elements using limit states design principles; joints and fasteners, sawn lumber and engineered wood products, light frame systems and shear walls.
Name: CIVL 518 Credits: 3 Desciption: Probability theory and random variables. Performance functions and probability of non-performance: simulations and FORM/SORM methods. Applications. System reliability. Time-dependent reliability and introduction to stochastic processes.
Name: CIVL 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Planning of civil engineering projects using networking techniques and time space methods. Treatment of resources and cash flow. Activity planning. Concepts of control at the project and activity levels.
Name: CIVL 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: Case studies in construction methods and solutions to construction site operation problems. Construction productivity, performance measurement, safety, quality, and other production issues.
Name: CIVL 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of the principles of engineering economics, economics and systems analysis techniques to the mathematical modeling of civil engineering projects. Topics treated: modeling of capital expenditures, revenues and operating expenditures, project financing, sensitivity analysis, risk analysis and management.
Name: CIVL 523 Credits: 3 Desciption: Perspectives of project management as it relates to civil engineering. Case studies are used to illustrate key issues.
Name: CIVL 524 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal issues of construction contracts, bidding processes, negligence, insurance, bonding, liens, and labour law.
Name: CIVL 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: Creation and use of building information models (BIM) for managing the construction process. 3D parametric modeling, 4D modeling, design coordination, model-based cost estimating, BIM performance measurement, and integrated project delivery methods.
Name: CIVL 529 Credits: 2 Desciption: Non-destructive testing, repair, rehabilitation, strengthening, high performance plain and fiber reinforced concrete, shotcrete, fibre reinforced polymer laminates, analysis, case studies.
Name: CIVL 537 Credits: 3 Desciption: Numerical techniques, weighted residual methods, finite differences, finite elements. Formulations using energy principles, shape functions, conformity, stiffness and mass matrices. Consistent load vectors. Applications to linear problems. Numerical integration and equation solvers. Dynamic problems. Introduction to nonlinear problems.
Name: CIVL 538 Credits: 3 Desciption: Finite elements for geometrically nonlinear problems: Lagrangian and Eulerian formulations. Review of constitutive models: Finite elements for materially nonlinear problems. Incremental formulations. Iterative solution algorithms. Application to project type problems.
Name: CIVL 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: Wave theories; wave shoaling, refraction, diffraction and reflection; tides and currents; random waves; wave generation; coastal structures; sedimentation; mixing processes; harbours design; coastal modeling.
Name: CIVL 542 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical processes that affect the behaviour of lakes, including reservoirs, water filled mine pits, mine tailings ponds and other standing water bodies. Impacts of these processes on water quality, and methods used in the rehabilitation of lakes.
Name: CIVL 547 Credits: 2 Desciption: Estuary dynamics and estuary classification; the effect of engineering works on salinity intrusion; physics of estuary pollution and the use of computer and hydraulic models.
Name: CIVL 555 Credits: 3 Desciption: Optimization and simulation and their use in civil engineering design, analysis, and operation.  Problem formulation, classical solution techniques, and heuristic approaches, and their applications to the disciplines within civil engineering are addressed.
Name: CIVL 556 Credits: 3 Desciption: Applications of practical simulation and optimization software systems and operations research methodologies in design, analysis, and operation of civil engineering systems.
Name: CIVL 559 Credits: 3 Desciption: Processes for removing and mitigating impurities that are not effectively removed in conventional water and waste treatment practice; investigation of disposal practices that make use of the impurities as a resource.
Name: CIVL 561 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sampling, investigations, fate and transport of chemicals in soil, water, sediment, biota and air; exposure pathways assessment and toxicological principles for receptors; risk-based approach to site remediation, treatment and control technologies.
Name: CIVL 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: An advanced laboratory course to familiarize the student with environmental engineering laboratory procedures, instrumental analyis, sampling techniques and data analysis.
Name: CIVL 565 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of the principles of selected physical and chemical treatment unit operations. Applications in both water and wastewater treatment.
Name: CIVL 569 Credits: 4 Desciption: Development of the principles of secondary, biological treatment processes, with application to both municipal and industrial wastewater treatment. Discussion of different treatment methodology, incorporating both aerobic and anaerobic microbiological processes.
Name: CIVL 574 Credits: 3 Desciption: Field and laboratory experimental studies of advanced aspects of soil behaviour; compressibility; shear strength; pore water pressure; dynamic tests; advanced instrumentation and measurement techniques; research reports required.
Name: CIVL 575 Credits: 2 Desciption: Non-linear elasticity; plasticity models including CamClay, UBC Sand and NorSand; applicability of models to specific engineering problems.
Name: CIVL 579 Credits: 2 Desciption: Material properties; standard tests data; soil-geosynthetic interaction; design of reinforced soil structures (walls, slopes, embankments); design of filtration and drainage works; design of geomembrane-lined waste containment facilities; regulatory requirements; case history applications.
Name: CIVL 580 Credits: 3 Desciption: Local site effects, soil-structure-interaction, liquefaction, seismic slope stability, seismic design of retaining structures; advanced methods in geotechnical earthquake engineering.
Name: CIVL 581 Credits: 3 Desciption: Seismic loading and its effect on earth structures; dynamic response of single, and multi-degree of freedom systems and continuous systems; behaviour of soil under dynamic loading; pore pressure generation and liquefaction effects; seismicity and seismic design parameters; dynamic analysis of earth structures; seismic design of soil-structure systems.
Name: CIVL 582 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods to measure, predict and evaluate impacts of transportation modes. Discussion of measures to reduce impacts.
Name: CIVL 583 Credits: 3 Desciption: The application of urban analysis methods and models to the design of municipal and transportation engineering systems. Credit will be granted for only one of CIVL 441, CIVL 583 or PLAN 535.
Name: CIVL 586 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CIVL 597 Credits: 1 Desciption: Presentations and discussions of current research topics in various disciplines of Civil Engineering.
Name: CIVL 598A Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminar or lecture.
Name: CIVL 598H Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminar or lecture.
Name: CIVL 598I Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminar or lecture.
Name: CIVL 599C Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: CIVL 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: CHIN 131 Credits: 3 Desciption: Skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Mandarin Chinese, an active vocabulary of about 250 Chinese words, and basic grammar. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 131 or CHIN 101 or CHIN 134.
Name: CHIN 133 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 131. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 133 or CHIN 103 or CHIN 134.
Name: CHIN 141 Credits: 3 Desciption: Skills in listening to and speaking Mandarin and reading and writing modern written Chinese. Emphasis on reading and writing. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 141 or CHIN 111 or CHIN 144.
Name: CHIN 143 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 141. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 143 or CHIN 113 or CHIN 144.
Name: CHIN 231 Credits: 3 Desciption: Skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing Mandarin Chinese, active vocabulary of about 750 Chinese words, and basic grammar. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 231 or CHIN 105 or CHIN 234.
Name: CHIN 233 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 231. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 233 or CHIN 107, or CHIN 234.
Name: CHIN 241 Credits: 3 Desciption: Skills in listening to and speaking Mandarin and reading and writing modern written Chinese. Emphasis on reading and writing. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 241 or CHIN 115 or CHIN 244.
Name: CHIN 243 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 241. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 243 or CHIN 117 or CHIN 244.
Name: CHIN 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: Skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing, and understanding of Chinese culture. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 331 or CHIN 201 or CHIN 334.
Name: CHIN 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 331. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 333 or CHIN 203 or CHIN 334.
Name: CHIN 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: Skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing, and better understanding of Chinese culture. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 335 or CHIN 205 or CHIN 338.
Name: CHIN 337 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 335. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 337 or CHIN 207 or CHIN 338.
Name: CHIN 341 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integrated skills in modern Chinese. Focus on reading, writing, and better understanding of Chinese culture. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 341 or CHIN 211 or CHIN 344.
Name: CHIN 343 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 341. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 343 or CHIN 213 or CHIN 344.
Name: CHIN 345 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integrated skills in modern Chinese. Focus on reading, writing, and better understanding of Chinese culture. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 345 or CHIN 215 or CHIN 348.
Name: CHIN 347 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 345. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 347 or CHIN 217 or CHIN 348.
Name: CHIN 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading and writing skills addressing social, cultural, and economic issues. Can be taken concurrently with CHIN 405. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 401 or CHIN 301 or CHIN 404.
Name: CHIN 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 401. Can be taken concurrently with CHIN 407. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 403 or CHIN 303 or CHIN 404.
Name: CHIN 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: More formal styles of oral and written communication. Can be taken concurrently with CHIN 401. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 405 or CHIN 305 or CHIN 408.
Name: CHIN 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 405. Can be taken concurrently with CHIN 403. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 407 or CHIN 307 or CHIN 408.
Name: CHIN 435 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading, writing, and presentation skills in business documentation, focusing on technical Chinese as used in the workplace. Emphasis on specialized vocabulary and development of communicative competence as relevant to advertising, the stock market and E-commerce. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 435 or CHIN 321.
Name: CHIN 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading, writing, and presentation skills in business documentation, focusing on technical Chinese as used in the workplace. Emphasis on specialized vocabulary and development of communicative competence as relevant to legal and financial documents such as contracts, investments, and insurance. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 437 or CHIN 323.
Name: CHIN 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: Transition from language to literature. Can be taken concurrently with CHIN 435 and CHIN 445. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 441 or CHIN 311 or CHIN 444.
Name: CHIN 443 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of CHIN 441. Can be taken concurrently with CHIN 437 and/or CHIN 447. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 443 or CHIN 313 or CHIN 444.
Name: CHIN 445 Credits: 3 Desciption: Public-speaking and writing skills at an advanced level. Can be taken concurrently with CHIN 435 and/or CHIN 441. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 445 or CHIN 315 or CHIN 448.
Name: CHIN 461 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in classical poetry from the pre-Qin to the end of the Han Dynasties, at an advanced level. Not to be taken concurrently with any of the following CHIN 400-level language courses: CHIN 441/ 443/ 444/ 445/ 447/ 448/ 435/ 437. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 461 or CHIN 464.
Name: CHIN 463 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in classical poetry from the Six Dynasties to early Tang, at an advanced level. Not to be taken concurrently with any of the following CHIN 400-level language courses: CHIN 441/ 443/ 444/ 445/ 447/ 448/ 435/ 437. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 463 or CHIN 464.
Name: CHIN 471 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in classical poetry from the time of Du Fu (712-770) to the end of the Tang Dynasty, at an advanced level. Not to be taken concurrently with any of the following CHIN 400-level language courses: CHIN 441/ 443/ 444/ 445/ 447/ 448/ 435/ 437. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 471 or 474.
Name: CHIN 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in classical poetry from the Song to the Qing dynasties, at an advanced level. Not to be taken concurrently with any CHIN courses lower than 400-level. Not to be taken concurrently with any of the following CHIN 400-level language courses: CHIN 441/ 443/ 444/ 445/ 447/ 448/ 435/ 437. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 473 or 474.
Name: CHIN 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected readings from the May Fourth Era to present. Not to be taken concurrently with any of the following CHIN 400-level language courses: CHIN 441/ 443/ 444/ 445/ 447/ 448/ 435/ 437. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 481 or CHIN 484.
Name: CHIN 483 Credits: 3 Desciption: Historical continuation of CHIN 481. Not to be taken concurrently with any of the following CHIN 400-level language courses: CHIN 441/ 443/ 444/ 445/ 447/ 448/ 435/ 437. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 483 or CHIN 484.
Name: CHIN 491 Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of early Chinese from the classical period through the Six Dynasties (5th century BCE to 6th century CE). Not to be taken concurrently with any of the following CHIN 400-level language courses: CHIN 441/ 443/ 444/ 445/ 447/ 448/ 435/ 437. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 491 or CHIN 431 or CHIN 494.
Name: CHIN 493 Credits: 3 Desciption: Focus in on the Tang and Song dynasties (617 - 1279). Not to be taken concurrently with any of the following CHIN 400-level language courses: CHIN 441/ 443/ 444/ 445/ 447/ 448/ 435/ 437. Credit will be granted for only one of CHIN 493 or CHIN 433 or CHIN 494.
Name: CHIL 599 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CHEM 111 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fundamentals of bonding theories, structural chemistry and equilibrium with applications relevant to modern society.
Name: CHEM 121 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
Name: CHEM 123 Credits: 4 Desciption: Fundamentals of chemical reactivity: thermodynamics; kinetics; organic chemistry, including stereochemistry; applications relevant to modern society.
Name: CHEM 154 Credits: 3 Desciption: Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.
Name: CHEM 203 Credits: 4 Desciption: Structure, bonding and physical properties of aliphatic and aromatic compounds; mechanistic analysis of chemical reactivity of common functional groups with a focus on carbon-heteroatom bond formation; functional group interconversion and oxidation/reduction reactions. Only open to students in Chemistry or Biochemistry specializations.  Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 203 or CHEM 233, 235.
Name: CHEM 205 Credits: 3 Desciption: Chemical kinetics and thermodynamics and spectroscopy useful in biological, medical, agricultural, earth, and related sciences. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 201 or CHEM 205.
Name: CHEM 208 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental concepts and principles governing bonding and reactivity of coordination complexes: ligand field theory; symmetry and point groups; frontier molecular orbital theory.
Name: CHEM 211 Credits: 4 Desciption: Quantitative chemical analysis; chemical and physical principles of spectrophotometry, potentiometry, and chromatography.
Name: CHEM 213 Credits: 3 Desciption: Spectroscopy of organic compounds.  Mechanistic analysis of chemical reactivity of common functional groups with a focus on carbon-carbon bond formation; functional group interconversion.  Preference will be given to students in Chemistry or Biochemistry specializations.
Name: CHEM 218 Credits: 3 Desciption: Chemical reactivity of inorganic systems: oxidation/reduction chemistry; multiply-bonded systems; main group chemistry.
Name: CHEM 233 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reactions and properties of carbonyl compounds, carbohydrates, amino acids, nucleic acids. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 233 or CHEM 203.
Name: CHEM 235 Credits: 1 Desciption: Techniques of organic chemistry. To be taken in conjunction with, or in the term following, CHEM 233. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 235 or CHEM 203.
Name: CHEM 245 Credits: 1 Desciption: Techniques in synthetic organic and inorganic chemistry. Open only to students in Chemistry or Biochemistry specializations.
Name: CHEM 250 Credits: 2 Desciption: Chemistry of selected groups of inorganic compounds, considered in relation to industrial processes.
Name: CHEM 251 Credits: 3 Desciption: States of matter, properties of gases, phase diagrams. Elementary chemical thermodynamics and kinetics. Reaction equilibria.
Name: CHEM 260 Credits: 3 Desciption: A description of the properties and reactions of organic compounds.
Name: CHEM 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Effective argumentation and communication skills in chemistry. Only open to students in a Chemistry specialization.
Name: CHEM 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Properties of natural waters, including gas and solid equilibria, pH, redox, complexation analysis, corrosion treatment, ion exchange, colloids and microbial transformations.
Name: CHEM 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to structure, composition and chemical processes occurring in Earth's atmosphere, including interactions with solar radiation, stratospheric ozone layer, photochemical smog and acid rain.
Name: CHEM 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of chemical thermodynamics; introduction to statistical mechanics; phase equilibria; electrochemistry.
Name: CHEM 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Diffusion and transport phenomena; interaction of radiation and matter. Methods for determining molecular weight, size, and shape of molecules in solution.
Name: CHEM 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory, design, and application of instrumental methods of chemical analysis including spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, electroanalysis, and chemical separations..
Name: CHEM 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of quantum mechanics; atomic wavefunctions; angular momentum; spin; atomic term symbols.
Name: CHEM 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: Chemistry of organic substances having particular relevance to the life sciences.
Name: CHEM 315 Credits: 1 Desciption: Principles and techniques of modern chemistry applied by integrating experiments chosen from organic, inorganic, physical, and analytical chemistry.
Name: CHEM 318 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fundamental aspects of chemical catalysis: kinetic models; catalytic processes in biochemistry and industry; emerging topics in catalysis.
Name: CHEM 319 Credits: 1 Desciption: The nature of scientific research; practical skills for chemical research; communicating science.  Restricted to Honours students with third year standing and, with permission of the department Head, to Major students with satisfactory third year standing.
Name: CHEM 325 Credits: 2 Desciption: Principles and techniques of modern chemistry applied by integrating experiments chosen from organic, inorganic, physical, and analytical chemistry. Open only to students in Chemistry specializations.
Name: CHEM 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic principles of materials chemistry: classification; nomenclature; synthetic methods; characterization.
Name: CHEM 329 Credits: 1 Desciption: Research ethics; data analysis skills for chemical research. Restricted to Honours students with third year standing and, with permission of the department Head, to Major students with satisfactory third year standing.
Name: CHEM 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of carbonyl group chemistry, cyclization reactions, conformational analysis and rearrangement reactions in organic synthesis.
Name: CHEM 335 Credits: 1 Desciption: Further development of principles and techniques of modern chemistry applied by integrating experiments chosen from organic, inorganic, physical, and analytical chemistry.
Name: CHEM 341 Credits: 3 Desciption: Importance of chemistry in society. Detailed case studies drawn from modern chemistry: human health, energy, commodity chemicals, materials, green chemistry, agriculture.
Name: CHEM 345 Credits: 2 Desciption: Further development of principles and techniques of modern chemistry applied by integrating experiments chosen from organic, inorganic, physical, and analytical chemistry.   Open only to students in Chemistry Major or Honours specializations.
Name: CHEM 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Taken during the winter term of the third year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Chemistry.
Name: CHEM 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Taken during the summer following the third year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Chemistry.
Name: CHEM 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Rotational, vibrational, electronic and magnetic resonance spectroscopy and associated techniques; group theory.
Name: CHEM 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Crystal structures; point and space groups; X-ray diffraction, neutron diffraction, electron diffraction of gases and surfaces. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 402 or CHEM 514.
Name: CHEM 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Surfaces and phenomena occurring at surfaces and interfaces: adsorption, thermodynamic treatments, technological applications. Methods for characterization and modification of surfaces. Dynamic electrochemistry and its application to understanding fuel cells.
Name: CHEM 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interactions of macromolecules in solution: ligand, antibody and ion binding to macromolecules; thermodynamics of polymer solutions; excluded volume effects; phase separation; partition in two phase polymer solutions.
Name: CHEM 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structure and availability of monomers; Propagation mechanisms; synthesis of polymers with predetermined properties; measurement and interpretation of physical properties of polymers.
Name: CHEM 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introductory concepts of statistical mechanics and statistical thermodynamics. Applications to chemistry with emphasis on understanding chemical reactivity. Credit will be granted  for only one of CHEM 503/CHEM 407 or PHYS 455.
Name: CHEM 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Electromagnetic, optical, thermal and mechanical properties, and chemical reactivity of solids; electrons in periodic systems: bands, zones; excitations: excitons, phonons, plasmons, polaritons; crystalline order and disorder; ionic conductivity. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 410 or CHEM 502.
Name: CHEM 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods and tactics for the synthesis of biologically active natural products and analogs, particularly alkaloids, polyketides, steroids and terpenes. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 411 or CHEM 566.
Name: CHEM 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to variational methods; many-electron systems; semi-empirical methods; perturbation theory; computational methods.
Name: CHEM 413 Credits: 3 Desciption: Enzyme catalysis; mechanistic enzymology; chemistry of cofactors; biosynthetic transformations; natural product biosynthesis; topics in chemical biology. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 413, CHEM 569, or BIOC 403.
Name: CHEM 417 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic treatment of the nucleus, with analogy to concepts in chemistry. Nuclear stabilities and associated radioactive decay processes. Nuclear structure. Applications of radioisotopes in chemistry. The interaction of radiation with matter.
Name: CHEM 418 Credits: 3 Desciption: The chemistry of compounds containing organic groups directly bonded to metals and metalloids. Emphasis will be placed on the structure and bonding of the compounds and their use in synthetic chemistry. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 418 or CHEM 524.
Name: CHEM 427 Credits: 3 Desciption: Contemporary materials chemistry, including design and synthesis of materials for energy, electronics, and health applications.
Name: CHEM 434 Credits: 3 Desciption: Unified theory of separation science; liquid and gas chromatography; capillary electrophoresis; electrochemical and spectroscopic detection; separation methods coupled with mass spectrometry and tandem mass spectrometry; biochemical applications. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 434 or CHEM 534.
Name: CHEM 445A Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of experimental design, practice and problem solving in chemistry, including the opportunity to pursue projects in a research setting.
Name: CHEM 445B Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of experimental design, practice and problem solving in chemistry, including the opportunity to pursue projects in a research setting.
Name: CHEM 445C Credits: 6 Desciption: Principles of experimental design, practice and problem solving in chemistry, including the opportunity to pursue projects in a research setting.
Name: CHEM 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: Students will undertake an investigation of a specific topic as agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. Open to third- and fourth-year chemistry students.
Name: CHEM 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: Students will undertake an investigation of a specific topic as agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. Open to third- and fourth-year chemistry students.
Name: CHEM 448C Credits: 6 Desciption: Students will undertake an investigation of a specific topic as agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. Open to third- and fourth-year chemistry students.
Name: CHEM 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: Original research work under the direction of a faculty member. Weekly seminar. Required of all Honours students. Open to Majors students with a satisfactory standing and permission of the department head.
Name: CHEM 460 Credits: 3 Desciption: Presentation, mechanistic discussion and analysis of modern synthetic methods using principles of physical organic chemistry. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 460 or CHEM 560.
Name: CHEM 473 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of mass spectrometry and modern spectroscopic techniques, including multidimensional NMR spectroscopy, to reaction analysis and detailed characterization of complex organic and organometallic molecular structures.
Name: CHEM 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Taken during the summer following fourth year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Chemistry.
Name: CHEM 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial research setting for a minimum of 3.5 months. Taken during the fall term of the fifth year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Chemistry.
Name: CHEM 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CHEM 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 502 or CHEM 410.
Name: CHEM 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introductory principles of Statistical Mechanics with illustrations of chemical importance. Applications to molecular gases, liquids, solids, independent particle statistics, electric and magnetic moments, radiation, chemical equilibrium and reaction rates. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 407/CHEM 503 or PHYS 455.
Name: CHEM 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: Crystal structures and structural analysis by the methods of X-ray diffraction and neutron diffraction. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 402 or CHEM 514.
Name: CHEM 516A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CHEM 516B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CHEM 519A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CHEM 521B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CHEM 524 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 418 or CHEM 524.
Name: CHEM 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CHEM 529 Credits: 3 Desciption: NMR, ESR, mass spectrometry, photoelectron spectroscopy (Auger, UV, X-Ray), Mossbauer spectroscopy, electrochemistry.
Name: CHEM 533 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CHEM 534 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 534 or CHEM 434.
Name: CHEM 535A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CHEM 540A Credits: 1 Desciption: Compulsory for all graduate students in Chemistry. Pass/Fail.
Name: CHEM 540B Credits: 1 Desciption: Compulsory for all graduate students in Chemistry. Pass/Fail.
Name: CHEM 540C Credits: 1 Desciption: Compulsory for all graduate students in Chemistry. Pass/Fail.
Name: CHEM 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: CHEM 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 460 or CHEM 560.
Name: CHEM 561 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 461 and CHEM 561.
Name: CHEM 566 Credits: 3 Desciption: Discussion of modern synthetic methods and applications to the synthesis of complex organic molecules. Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 566 or CHEM 411.
Name: CHEM 569 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of CHEM 569, CHEM 413, or BIOC 403.
Name: CHEM 573 Credits: 3 Desciption: A problem solving course to illustrate the application of NMR, mass spectrometry, ORD, CD, etc. to elucidation of structures of organic and organometallic compounds.
Name: CHEM 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: CHBE 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Written and oral communication in chemical and biological engineering: business correspondence, laboratory reports, technical description, and poster presentations. Restricted to students in second year of the Chemical and Biological Engineering programs.
Name: CHBE 230 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mathematical formulation of chemical and biological engineering problems; standard techniques of numerical analysis and their application to chemical, environmental and biotechnological systems; program development; use of commercial numerical analysis software.
Name: CHBE 241 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to Chemical and Biological Engineering; units; stoichiometry; phase equilibria; material balances; energy balances.
Name: CHBE 243 Credits: 1 Desciption: Processes used in chemical and biological industries, which emphasize underlying physical, chemical, and biological principles.
Name: CHBE 244 Credits: 3 Desciption: Energy and the first law; second law of thermodynamics; entropy; availability (energy) analysis; thermodynamic properties of fluids, application to power generation, refrigeration, and liquefaction, as well as biological, environmental, and electrochemical systems.
Name: CHBE 251 Credits: 3 Desciption: Fluid Mechanics. Momentum-transfer in fluids in laminar and turbulent flow; microscopic and macroscopic material; momentum and energy balances; rheology; dimensional analysis; flow in conduits; pumps; fluid metering.
Name: CHBE 262 Credits: 4 Desciption: Experiments chosen to illustrate and use material presented in 200-level CHBE and CHEM courses.
Name: CHBE 344 Credits: 3 Desciption: Characterization of particles, droplets, and bubbles; comminution, screening and classification; filtration, sedimentation, centrifugal separations and fluidization; thermal operations including evaporation and crystalization.
Name: CHBE 345 Credits: 4 Desciption: Stage-wise mass transfer operations; extraction and absorption; single and stage-wise binary and multi-component distillation; principles and equipment design for continuous contact mass transfer operations including absorption, binary distillation and others such as extraction, drying, humidification, membrane separations.
Name: CHBE 346 Credits: 3 Desciption: Volumetric and thermodynamic properties of fluids; equations of state; heat effects; ideal and non-ideal mixtures; fugacities and activity coefficients; vapor-liquid and liquid-liquid phase equilibrium; solubility of gases and solids in liquids; chemical reaction equilibrium; equilibrium partitioning of pollutants.
Name: CHBE 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Heat and mass transfer; conduction and molecular diffusion; convective transfer; thermal radiation; analogies among heat, mass and momentum transfer; heat exchanger design.
Name: CHBE 356 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to modeling of chemical processes; transient response analysis; design of feedback control systems; stability analysis; frequency response analysis; process control applications; instrumentation; advanced control techniques; distributed control systems.
Name: CHBE 362 Credits: 2 Desciption: Experiments to illustrate and use material presented in 200 and 300-level CHBE courses.  Field trips may be required.
Name: CHBE 364 Credits: 2 Desciption: Laboratory experiments to illustrate key concepts and measurement techniques in environmental engineering as used by  engineers.
Name: CHBE 365 Credits: 2 Desciption: Laboratory experiments to illustrate key concepts and measurement techniques in biotechnology as used by engineers. Field trips may be required.
Name: CHBE 366 Credits: 2 Desciption: Experiments to illustrate and use material presented in 300-level CHBE process option courses. Field trips may be required.
Name: CHBE 373 Credits: 3 Desciption: Legal, environmental and physicochemical aspects of industrial water pollution and its abatement will be surveyed; techniques for design of wastewater treatment processes currently used in industry; case studies from chemical and process industries will be considered in detail.
Name: CHBE 376 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and practice of computer flowsheeting in chemical plant design; hands-on use of modern process simulators, prediction of thermodynamic properties of fluids; behaviour of single and multiphase systems.
Name: CHBE 381 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design of industrial bioreactor systems: organism selection; kinetics of microbial processes and enzyme reactions; design and modeling of single and multi-stage bioreactors.
Name: CHBE 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Process and unit operations in the conversion of wood chips to pulp and green bio-products. Biorefinery concepts and emerging technologies for the production of biomaterials, biochemicals and bioenergy.
Name: CHBE 419 Credits: 3 Desciption: Modern bioreactor technology, upstream and downstream processing of biotechnology products. Restricted to students in the Joint Degree in Biotechnology.
Name: CHBE 453 Credits: 6 Desciption: 8-month project-based course, integrating chemical and biological engineering concepts with economics, life cycle analysis and health and safety considerations in the design of major biological processes.
Name: CHBE 454 Credits: 6 Desciption: 8-month project-based course, integrating chemical engineering concepts with economics, life cycle analysis and health and safety considerations in the design of major chemical processes.
Name: CHBE 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: Kinetics of homogeneous chemical and biological reactions, isothermal ideal reactor design, analysis of non-ideal reactors using residence time distribution and mixing models.
Name: CHBE 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: Definition of heterogeneous catalysis; properties of catalysts; kinetics of catalytic reactions; ideal heterogeneous reactors; non-isothermal reactor design; mass and heat transfer effects in heterogeneous reactors; examples of industrial reactors.
Name: CHBE 457 Credits: 3 Desciption: Strategy for the conceptual design of industrial chemical and biological processes; rules of thumb for chemical engineers, simulation to assist process synthesis, reactor-separator network synthesis, introduction to product design and molecular structure design, efficiency and sustainability in the chemical industry.
Name: CHBE 459 Credits: 3 Desciption: Estimation of capital and operating costs; interest calculations; taxes; economic comparison of alternatives; economic optimization.
Name: CHBE 464 Credits: 4 Desciption: Experiments in unit operations relating to process, environmental and biological engineering. Experiments are designed to provide experience in instrumentation and control. Field trips may be required.
Name: CHBE 474 Credits: 3 Desciption: Frequency response analysis; advanced control techniques; multivariable control systems; mathematical tools for computer control systems; design of computer control systems; engineering design of industrial control applications; plant wide control concepts; distributed control systems concepts.
Name: CHBE 476 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mathematical modelling of chemical plants and processes; computer simulation; introduction to numerical optimization techniques.
Name: CHBE 477 Credits: 3 Desciption: Stoichiometry, thermodynamics and kinetics of electrode reactions; conductivity and mass transport in electrolytes; material, energy and voltage balances; design of  electrosynthesis, electrorecovery of metals, and energy generation of batteries and fuel cells.
Name: CHBE 481 Credits: 3 Desciption: Bioprocess flowsheeting; production-scale fermenter design; product recovery and purification; bioseparations; chromatography; viral inactivation and removal; process validation.
Name: CHBE 482 Credits: 3 Desciption: Petroleum feed stocks testing methods, pseudocomponents, and property methods. Design and simulation of separation and reaction systems. Steady state and dynamic simulation.
Name: CHBE 483 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supply and use of conventional and alternative fuels and energy.  Design and operation of unit operations for processing of fossil fuels, biomass, and other energy sources.  Environmental considerations of energy use.
Name: CHBE 484 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pollution prevention, cleaner production, green chemistry and engineering, industrial ecology, eco-industrial parks, and sustainable development; environmental impact assessment including life-cycle assessment, total cost analysis and environmental systems analysis; reduce/recycling/reuse of wastes and by-products.
Name: CHBE 485 Credits: 3 Desciption: Impacts of air pollutants on health, visibility, smog formation, ozone depletion and global warming; air quality and emission standards; atmospheric dispersion of air pollutants; prevention and control technologies for particulates, SOx, NOx, VOCs, and CO2.
Name: CHBE 486 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physico-chemical, thermal, and biological methods for purification of solid waste and wastewater, and conversion to bioproducts/industrial products, energy and clean water.
Name: CHBE 487 Credits: 3 Desciption: Outline of the physics and chemistry of interfaces; discussion of the part played by surface effects in technical processes. Credit will be granted for only one of CHBE 357 and CHBE 487.
Name: CHBE 491 Credits: 1 Desciption: Literature searching, planning, equipment design, experimental design for an individual research project leading to a written proposal and oral presentation.
Name: CHBE 492 Credits: 5 Desciption: Research project under the direction of a staff member.
Name: CHBE 493 Credits: 1 Desciption: Literature search, planning, equipment design for an individual research project leading to a written proposal and oral presentation. Topic to be chosen from a selection of environmental topics offered by the department.
Name: CHBE 494 Credits: 5 Desciption: Environmental engineering research topic.
Name: CHBE 495 Credits: 1 Desciption: Literature search, planning, equipment design for an individual research project leading to a written proposal and oral presentation. Topic to be chosen from a selection of biotechnology topics offered by the department.
Name: CHBE 496 Credits: 5 Desciption: Biotechnological engineering research topic.
Name: CHBE 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: CHBE 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics vary from year to year, and may include kinetics of fluid-solid reactions of single particles, packed, moving, fluidized and transported bed reactors; rotary kilns; gas-liquid reaction kinetics and reactor design; reactor design for gas-liquid-solid and non-catalytic processes.
Name: CHBE 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pressure-volume-temperature relations; chemical equilibria by Gibbs' method; vapor-liquid equilibria; thermodynamic calculations by third law and quantum-statistical methods; irreversible thermodynamics and information theory.
Name: CHBE 553 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics vary from year to year. Amongst these will be dimensional analysis and model theory; treatment and interpretation of chemical engineering data; formulation and solution of differential and finite difference equations; graphical, numerical and statistical methods.
Name: CHBE 554 Credits: 3 Desciption: Prediction of velocity, temperature, and concentration profiles for flowing fluids; unifying concepts and analogies in momentum, heat, and mass transport; streamline flow and turbulence, molecular and eddy conduction and diffusion, boundary layers, smooth and rough conduits and other boundaries.
Name: CHBE 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: Biological process engineering in the fields of biotechnology and biomedical engineering; enzymatic and cellular kinetics; cell culture, process development and product recovery; bioreactor design and operation. Critical analysis of recent biological engineering research articles.
Name: CHBE 563 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques for characterizing catalysts and their surfaces. Commercial methods of preparing catalysts. Chemistry of catalytic reactions and the impact of catalyst properties, mechanisms and kinetics on reactor engineering. Applications of catalytic oxidations, hydrogenations, C-C bond formation and cracking.
Name: CHBE 564 Credits: 3 Desciption: Modern bioreactor technology, upstream and downstream processing of biotechnology products. Credit will be granted for only one of CHBE 564 or MICB 419.
Name: CHBE 575 Credits: 3 Desciption: Characteristics of various air pollutants, their behaviour in the atmosphere, monitoring problems, technology of particle collection and control of pollutant gases. Particular problems of regional interest are discussed.
Name: CHBE 577 Credits: 3 Desciption: Electrochemical interfaces; electrode reactions; thermodynamics; kinetics and transport processes in electrochemical systems; experimental techniques. Electrochemical reactors and processes; modelling, design and economics. Electrochemical technologies; electrosynthesis, batteries and fuel cells. Electro-metallurgy; electrowinning and refining of metals, corrosion, leaching and cementation.
Name: CHBE 583 Credits: 3 Desciption: Supply and use of conventional and alternative fuels and energy. Design and operation of unit operations for processing of fossil fuels, biomass, and other energy sources. Environmental considerations of energy use.
Name: CHBE 596 Credits: 6 Desciption: For M.Eng. students. Carry out a literature review, conduct a research or design project and prepare an engineering report under the supervision of a faculty member.
Name: CHBE 597 Credits: 2 Desciption: Techniques for preparation of a critical literature review and focussed research proposal for M.A.Sc. candidates. Students perform oral and written critiques of published research in their area of study, define research questions and hypotheses, and develop a focussed research proposal.
Name: CHBE 598 Credits: 1 Desciption: Current topics in chemical and biological engineering research. A required seminar for all thesis graduate students (M.Sc., M.A.Sc., and Ph.D.) in the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering.
Name: CHBE 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: For M.A.Sc.
Name: CHBE 697 Credits: 2 Desciption: Techniques for preparation of a critical literature review and focussed research proposal for Ph.D. candidates. Students perform oral and written critiques of published research in their area of study, define research questions and hypotheses, and develop a focussed research proposal.
Name: CHBE 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: CENS 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: Major works of Central, Eastern and Northern European literature from the eighteenth century to the present in their European context.
Name: CENS 303A Credits: 3 Desciption: The Nazi Holocaust in film and literature from Central, Eastern, and Northern European Countries.
Name: CENS 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of the cultural, social, and historical construction of the witch in central and northern Europe with comparisons to recent history, current events, and popular culture.
Name: CENS 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cultural and social discourses of gender in literary works written in Central, Eastern and Northern Europe roughly between 1850 - 1930.
Name: CELL 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development of written communication and critical thinking skills.
Name: CELL 503 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Cellular communication within tissues by direct contact and by modulating and responding to the microenvironment.
Name: CELL 504 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Structure and function of the cytoskeleton, and its involvement in various forms of cell and intracellular motility.
Name: CELL 505 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Organization of membranes and organelles within cells and how molecules are targeted to intracellular sites.
Name: CELL 506 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Principles and applications in biological research.
Name: CELL 507 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: CELL 508 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Methodologies and resources for genetic analysis of cellular function.
Name: CELL 509 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: The integration of basic cellular processes to produce a functioning cell.
Name: CELL 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: CELL 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: CEEN 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Thermodynamic analysis of energy conversion processes, power cycles and refrigeration cycles. Exergy analysis of conventional energy systems. Thermal conversion technologies.
Name: CEEN 523 Credits: 3 Desciption: Energy/environment/society interactions; development of energy resources; energy demand and its determinants; policy dimension of energy and climate change; impacts on ecosystems; life cycle analysis; impact assessment and other tools for quantitative and qualitative evaluation of alternative energy sources.
Name: CEEN 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: Engineering concepts of demand side management (DSM), energy auditing, analysis of buildings and industrial equipment, measurement and verification, and system data analysis. Energy efficient technologies for green buildings and industrial processes. Behavior and energy use. DSM policy concepts.
Name: CEEN 596 Credits: 6 Desciption: For M.Eng. students. Carry out a project and prepare an engineering report under the supervision of a faculty member.
Name: CDST 250A Credits: 3 Desciption: Approaches to the study of Canada from an interdisciplinary perspective, including cultural, political, historical, and economic dimensions.
Name: CDST 350B Credits: 3 Desciption: An interdisciplinary introduction to Canadian studies. Required of all Canadian Studies Majors.
Name: CDST 450B Credits: 3 Desciption: The Canadian experience from a variety of disciplinary perspectives. Offered by the McLean Chair in Canadian Studies. Required of all Canadian Studies Majors.
Name: CCST 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical and historical foundations of visual representations and expressive culture. It explores the history of museums and galleries, and changes in the meaning of art and material culture as debates about cultural property intensify.
Name: CCST 503 Credits: 9 Desciption: Practical on-site teamwork to produce exhibitions or other public displays in a museum, gallery, or alternative situation, offering opportunities for comparison, collaboration, and interdisciplinarity. Students concurrently produce a major paper from the ideas and research which generate the exhibition.
Name: CCFI 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CCFI 565B Credits: 3 Desciption: Courses in various subject matter fields designed to bring teachers up to date in recent findings in each field.
Name: CCFI 572B Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of current theories and practices in education emphasizing factors affecting decision-making. The emphasis of the seminar will vary according to faculty and student interests and students will be encouraged to investigate an area of personal concern and present their findings.
Name: CCFI 580A Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: CCFI 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: CCFI 580C Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation and report of a problem.
Name: CCFI 590 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: CCFI 599C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CCFI 599D Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: CCFI 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: CAPS 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of the underlying questions and assumptions, experimental approach, results and significance of work described in selected biomedical research presentations.
Name: CAPS 301 Credits: 6 Desciption: Organ systems function with particular reference to mammalian and human physiology.  See credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414
Name: CAPS 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques and principles of human physiology. This course must be taken in conjunction with CAPS 301. Restricted to Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences and Pharmacology Honours students.
Name: CAPS 390 Credits: 3 Desciption: Organ system development, structure and function at the microscopic level.
Name: CAPS 391 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structure and function of body regions at the macroscopic level.
Name: CAPS 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised relevant work experience in an industrial, academic, or government setting for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Work term report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Option in Honours Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences (B.Sc.).
Name: CAPS 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised relevant work experience in an industrial, academic, or government setting for  a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Work term report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Option in Honours Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences (B.Sc.).
Name: CAPS 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Recent advancements in cellular and molecular physiology that have revolutionized our understanding of cell function in health and disease.
Name: CAPS 422 Credits: 3 Desciption: The control and integration of cardio-pulmonary function in mammals. Intended for Honours students in Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences or other life sciences.
Name: CAPS 423 Credits: 3 Desciption: Control of mammalian renal and gastrointestinal systems. Role in homeostasis. Intended for Honours students in Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences or other life sciences.
Name: CAPS 424 Credits: 3 Desciption: Hormonal control of homeostatic, metabolic and reproductive function. Intended for Honours students in Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences or other life sciences.
Name: CAPS 426 Credits: 3 Desciption: An integrated study of the structural and functional organization of the central nervous system with special emphasis on neurophysiological mechanisms.
Name: CAPS 430 Credits: 6 Desciption: Methods, techniques, and use of instruments required for physiological investigation. CAPS 303 or PHYL 303 and the consent of the department are required and enrolment will be limited.
Name: CAPS 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CAPS 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: CAPS 448C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: CAPS 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: Written report and presentation on an independent investigaton approved by the department head.
Name: CAPS 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised relevant work experience in an industrial, academic, or government setting for a minimum of 13 weeks full time. Work term report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Option in Honours Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences (B.Sc.).
Name: CAPS 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised relevant work experience in an industrial, academic, or government setting for a minimum of 13 weeks full time. Work term report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-op Option in Honours Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences (B.Sc.).
Name: BUSI 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic principles of microeconomics and application to current economic problems.
Name: BUSI 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic principles of macroeconomics and application to current economic problems.
Name: BUSI 111 Credits: 3 Desciption: Canadian legal system and contract law and detailed aspects of real estate law as it applies in British Columbia.
Name: BUSI 112 Credits: 3 Desciption: Canadian legal system and contract law and detailed aspects of real estate law as it applies across Canada.
Name: BUSI 121 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to mathematics of real estate finance and statistical measures and methods and their application to practical real estate concepts.
Name: BUSI 221 Credits: 3 Desciption: History, function and mechanics of Canadian mortgage markets.
Name: BUSI 291 Credits: 3 Desciption: Methods and applications of statistics in business; data analysis, descriptive regression; data generation; sampling distributions; hypothesis testing; confidence intervals; two sample problems; inference in regression.
Name: BUSI 293 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the construction and interpretation of financial reports prepared primarily for external use.
Name: BUSI 294 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the development and use of accounting information for management planning and control, and the development of cost information for financial reports.
Name: BUSI 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Comprehensive treatment of urban and real estate economics; introduction to study of cities and real estate market; analytical microeconomic principles.
Name: BUSI 329 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introductory examination of work organizations and the behaviour of individuals within them.  Phenomena to be studied include organizational structure, environments, group processes, motivation and leadership.
Name: BUSI 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to concepts and techniques for appraising the value of real estate.
Name: BUSI 331 Credits: 3 Desciption: Valuation techniques for income real estate, including income method of appraisal, tax consequences of real property ownership, and portfolio analysis methodology.
Name: BUSI 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to information technology related to business use: design, implementation, and application of information systems.
Name: BUSI 344 Credits: 3 Desciption: Explores creative, practical uses of statistical and computer applications in determining and analyzing real estate value. Through case studies and hands-on computer work, students will learn the fundamentals of exploratory data analysis and appraisal valuation modeling.
Name: BUSI 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines common issues that affect the practice of residential real estate valuation. Credit will be granted for only one of BUSI 352 or both BUSI 442 and BUSI 452.
Name: BUSI 353 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of accounting as a means of measurement and as an information system for external reporting purposes.
Name: BUSI 354 Credits: 3 Desciption: The provision and analysis of cost accounting information that will assist management in making operating decisions and in evaluating operational performance.
Name: BUSI 355 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of income tax from the standpoint of the individual and business enterprise.
Name: BUSI 370 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the basic principles of financial valuation and an examination of corporate enterprise decisions including working capital management; capital budgeting; capital structures and dividend policy.
Name: BUSI 393 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the law of contracts, with particular reference to contracts for sale of goods and related law of personal property, principles of agency, partnership, and company law.
Name: BUSI 398 Credits: 4 Desciption: The residential property appraisal process, focusing both on valuation techniques as well as general research and report writing skills.
Name: BUSI 400 Credits: 3 Desciption: Underlying theory and techniques used in design, construction, and inspection of residential properties.
Name: BUSI 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Underlying theory and techniques used in the design and construction of commercial properties.
Name: BUSI 420A Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: BUSI 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: General business skills for real estate practitioners.
Name: BUSI 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines the day-to-day issues which affect the practice of property management.
Name: BUSI 442 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines the day-to day issues that affect the practice of real estate appraisal.
Name: BUSI 443 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduces the practice of real property assessment, including the nature of the techniques used, the required duties of assessors, and how an assessment office is administrated.
Name: BUSI 444 Credits: 6 Desciption: This course develops and applies the major techniques for valuing real property.
Name: BUSI 445 Credits: 3 Desciption: Real estate development process from the project idea to the cursory feasibility stage.  Steps in development planning, including analysis, design and evaluation.  Evaluating development potential, land acquisition, and site planning.
Name: BUSI 446 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of real estate development process with an examination of economic feasibility studies, approval processes, project financing, construction, project management, and marketing phases.
Name: BUSI 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: A continuation of the examination of accounting as a means of measurement and as an information system for external reporting purposes.
Name: BUSI 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of BUSI 441.
Name: BUSI 452 Credits: 3 Desciption: Continuation of BUSI 442
Name: BUSI 453 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of advanced financial accounting topics.
Name: BUSI 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of internal control; audit evidence; sampling and testing; audit reports; standards and responsibilities of the external audit.
Name: BUSI 460 Credits: 3 Desciption: Delves into two quantitative decision-making methodologies  decision analysis and forecasting  and explores them using a problem-solving framework.
Name: BUSI 465 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic considerations affecting the domestic and international marketing of goods and services.
Name: BUSI 470 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BUSI 486B Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BUSI 493 Credits: 3 Desciption: A conceptual and practical introduction to the major areas of busness strategy with an integrative perspective on managing a business.  Includes the analysis of a business and its environment, the development and evaluation of strategic alternatives, and implementation of change.
Name: BUSI 497 Credits: 6 Desciption: An agriculturally-focused version of BUSI 499.
Name: BUSI 499 Credits: 6 Desciption: The income property appraisal process, focusing both on valuation techniques as well as general research and report writing skills.
Name: BRDG 500 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BRDG 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BRDG 590 Credits: 0 Desciption: 4 months for M.Sc.
Name: BRDG 600 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BRDG 601 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: BRDG 690 Credits: 0 Desciption: 8 months for Ph.D. students.
Name: BOTA 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BOTA 502 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: BOTA 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BOTA 544 Credits: 3 Desciption: Admission to the course is limited and requires recommendation from the Head of Botany or the Director of the Biotechnology Laboratory.
Name: BOTA 546A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: BOTA 546B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BOTA 546D Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: BOTA 546F Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BOTA 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: BOTA 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and operation of biomedical equipment for cardiovascular system, respiratory system, renal dialysis, endoscopy, surgery, and imaging. Functional relationships of biomedical equipment to physiology and anatomy of major body systems. Restricted to students in EECE and MECH Biomedical Engineering options. Credit will be granted for only one of BMEG 410 or BMEG 510.
Name: BMEG 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of clinical practice, Canadian healthcare system, medical approach to diagnosis, ethics and regulations for clinical trials, medical technology management, medical device development and standards, biostatistics. Restricted to students in EECE and MECH Biomedical Engineering options. Credit will be granted for only one of BMEG 456 or BMEG 556.
Name: BMEG 500 Credits: 1 Desciption: Operation of biomedical and clinical engineering facilities at hospitals. Daily activities of healthcare workers. Patients experience.
Name: BMEG 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 510 Credits: 4 Desciption: Anatomical structures and physiological principles of major body systems.  Functional connections to operation of diagnostic and therapeutic equipment.  Exploration of recent advances. Credit will be granted for only one of BMEG 410 or BMEG 510.
Name: BMEG 511 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of operation, clinical applications, and engineering design of common medical devices for measuring physiological signals.
Name: BMEG 554A Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 554B Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 554C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 556 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of professional engineering practice, the Canadian healthcare system, medical approach to diagnosis, principles and management of common medical devices, ethics and regulations for clinical trials, codes and regulations of medical devices, applications of biomedical engineering. Credit will be granted for only one of BMEG 456 or BMEG 556.
Name: BMEG 557 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 590 Credits: 1 Desciption: Formulate and implement a professional skills development plan involving workshops on topics such as writing, presentation, teaching, finance, marketing, equity, ethics.  Pass/Fail grading.
Name: BMEG 591I Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 591M Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 591T Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 597 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised industrial, clinical, or research project for students registered in Biomedical Engineering program.
Name: BMEG 598 Credits: 1 Desciption: Presentation and discussion of current topics in biomedical engineering research and development. A required course for all graduate students in Biomedical Engineering.
Name: BMEG 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: BMEG 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: BIOT 280 Credits: 0 Desciption: Block registration for the biotechnology, microbiology, physiology, communication for biotechnology, organic chemistry, information technology, plant anatomy, plant physiology and cell biology courses taken in the Joint BCIT/UBC Degree in Biotechnology.  Credit limited to students in the Joint Degree Program.
Name: BIOT 380 Credits: 0 Desciption: Block registration for the microbiology, molecular genetics, biochemistry, management and regulatory affairs, process systems, analytical chemistry and communication courses taken in the BCIT/UBC Joint Degree in Biotechnology.  Credit limited to students in the Joint Degree Program.
Name: BIOL 111 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts fundamental to biological issues, such as the genetic basis of biological variation, evolution, infectious diseases, causes of cancer, population growth, and human effects on ecosystems.  Not open to students who have credit for Biology 12 (including AP, IB).
Name: BIOL 112 Credits: 3 Desciption: The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
Name: BIOL 121 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of storage and transmission of genetic variation; origin and evolution of species and their ecological interactions. Credit will be granted for only one of BIOL 121 or BIOL 344.
Name: BIOL 140 Credits: 2 Desciption: Guided experimental investigations of biological questions.
Name: BIOL 153 Credits: 7 Desciption: The principles of biology with particular reference to the human body (anatomy and physiology). Laboratories include selected experiments on organ physiology and general anatomy. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: BIOL 155 Credits: 6 Desciption: The principles of biology with particular reference to the human body (anatomy and physiology).
Name: BIOL 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structure and function of plant and animal cells; membrane models, cytoplasmic organelles, biological information from gene to protein, the endomembrane system, secretion, intracellular digestion, endocytosis, transport processes, cytoskeleton and cell motility.
Name: BIOL 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Biological molecules, protein structure and enzyme action, energy transfer, central metabolic pathways and their regulation. Examples drawn from plants, animals and microorganisms. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.) Credit will be granted for only one of BIOL 201, BIOC 202, or BIOC 203.
Name: BIOL 203 Credits: 4 Desciption: Introduction to the origin and diversity of protists (protozoa and algae) at both cellular and genomic levels, including the role of endosymbiosis in evolution.
Name: BIOL 204 Credits: 4 Desciption: Introduction to the vertebrate phyla and their evolution; a comparative study of vertebrate structure and function, with dissection of representative forms.
Name: BIOL 205 Credits: 4 Desciption: An introduction to the unity, diversity and evolutionary history of invertebrates.
Name: BIOL 209 Credits: 4 Desciption: Diversity, ecology, cell biology and evolutionary origins of multicellular eukaryotes, illustrated through mosses and liverworts; fungi and slime molds; and fresh water and marine algae.
Name: BIOL 210 Credits: 4 Desciption: A comparative study of pteridophytes, gymnosperms and angiosperms, integrating form, function and ecology.
Name: BIOL 230 Credits: 3 Desciption: Dynamics of plant and animal populations, structure of ecological communities and functioning of ecosystems. Interpretation of research results and application to environmental issues. Labs meet once a month. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: BIOL 233 Credits: 3 Desciption: How genetic differences determine individual characteristics, and how they are inherited, analyzed, and modified. Emphasis on genetic diversity, human ancestry, personal genomics, and cancer genetics.
Name: BIOL 234 Credits: 3 Desciption: Genotype and phenotype, mechanisms of inheritance, genetic analysis. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: BIOL 260 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles of cellular and organismal physiology illustrated with examples from unicellular organisms, plants and animals, focusing on transport processes, water balance, nutrient acquisition and communication.
Name: BIOL 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Statistical procedures for biological research; estimation, hypothesis testing, goodness of fit, analysis of variance and regression; use of computers for statistical analysis. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: BIOL 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to uses of mathematics in the biological sciences; experimental design and modelling of biological processes. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: BIOL 306 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ecology of populations, communities and ecosystems. Tests of ecological theory with experiments and application to environmental issues. Labs meet once a month. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: BIOL 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Animal behavior from an ecological and evolutionary perspective; the methods used to study behaviour and test its adaptive significance.
Name: BIOL 320 Credits: 4 Desciption: A survey of the algae, considering their morphology, life history, classification, and ecology.
Name: BIOL 323 Credits: 3 Desciption: The evolutionary diversity of the fungi as shown by their morphology and reproductive biology.
Name: BIOL 324 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to seed plant taxonomy emphasizing descriptive morphology and identification. Each student will be required to submit a plant collection.
Name: BIOL 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: Comparative aspects of the functional design of skeletal systems and the mechanics of swimming, flying and terrestrial locomotion, with particular reference to the vertebrates.
Name: BIOL 326 Credits: 3 Desciption: Behaviour and ecology of invertebrates as revealed by hands-on experiments in the laboratory and field.  Marine emphasis.
Name: BIOL 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the structure, classification and biology of insects; ecology, life-histories and insect-plant relations.
Name: BIOL 328 Credits: 3 Desciption: Classification, morphology and life histories of animal parasites affecting humans and other animals.
Name: BIOL 331 Credits: 4 Desciption: Animal development and its underlying causal principles; introductory embryology.
Name: BIOL 332 Credits: 4 Desciption: Cell biology, ecology, and evolution of protists; origins of multicellularity; the role of protists in micropaleontology, parasitology, and oceanography.
Name: BIOL 335 Credits: 3 Desciption: Isolation and identification of genes, analysis of gene structure; gene expression and its regulation in prokaryotes and in eukaryotes; developmental genetics.
Name: BIOL 336 Credits: 3 Desciption: Natural selection; population genetics, quantitative genetics and systematics; classical and molecular approaches to the study of evolution.
Name: BIOL 337 Credits: 3 Desciption: A laboratory course demonstrating the fundamental principles of inheritance: Mendel's Laws, sex-linkage, mapping, mutagenesis, chromosome structure, developmental biology, biochemical and population genetics.
Name: BIOL 338 Credits: 4 Desciption: An introduction to genome biology and applications of genomics.
Name: BIOL 340 Credits: 2 Desciption: Experiments using unicellular eukaryotes or prokaryotes with emphasis on techniques in microscopy and cell biology.
Name: BIOL 341 Credits: 2 Desciption: Use of recombinant DNA techniques.
Name: BIOL 342 Credits: 2 Desciption: Field-based and laboratory-based investigation of organisms.
Name: BIOL 343 Credits: 3 Desciption: The interactions of plants and human societies: the role of people in the origin, evolution and dispersal of food, drug and economic plants, and the influences of plants on human societies. Suitable for upper-level Arts students.
Name: BIOL 344 Credits: 3 Desciption: Relates genetic and evolutionary concepts to humans. Primarily for upper-level students in the Faculty of Arts. Credit will be granted for only one of BIOL 121 or BIOL 344. Not open to students in the Life Sciences.
Name: BIOL 345 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basics of ecology are introduced, focussing on observations of the natural world. Assignments, including a group project, consider connections between research, awareness and practical uses of ecology. Not for credit in the Life Sciences.
Name: BIOL 346 Credits: 3 Desciption: An elementary course in molecular biology primarily for Arts students. The historical development of recent discoveries in molecular biology with emphasis on bacteria and viruses and their interaction with humans. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.) Not for credit in Life Sciences.
Name: BIOL 347 Credits: 3 Desciption: Contemporary research in the Botany and Zoology Departments; history and methodology of scientific discovery; seminars on current problems. Restricted to Honours students in Biology. Not to be taken concurrently with BIOL 449.
Name: BIOL 351 Credits: 4 Desciption: Mechanisms and regulation of functional processes contributing to the assimilation, transport and utilization of water, mineral nutrients and carbon by plants. Restricted to Majors and Honours students in Biology.
Name: BIOL 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the processes involved in growth and development: cell division, tissue culture, meristems, differentiation, and the action of major growth regulators, and photomorphogenesis. Emphasis on experimental approaches.
Name: BIOL 361 Credits: 3 Desciption: Excitable membranes, neural signaling and transmission; transduction and coding of sensory information; muscle contraction.
Name: BIOL 362 Credits: 2 Desciption: The cytoskeleton, cell dynamics, and regulation of cellular activities. Preference will be given to Majors or Honours students in Biology and Honours Biophysics.
Name: BIOL 363 Credits: 2 Desciption: Experimental studies in animal physiology. Restricted to Majors and Honours students in Biology, Nutritional Sciences and Biophysics.
Name: BIOL 364 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cardiovascular, respiratory, and osmoregulatory physiology. Preference will be given to students who are in Biology, Nutritional Sciences, and Honours Biophysics.
Name: BIOL 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial setting, taken during Winter Session (Term 2) of third year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Biology.
Name: BIOL 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting, taken during Summer Session (Terms 1 and 2) following third year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Biology.
Name: BIOL 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical and applied limnology; ecology of inland water organisms in relation to physical, chemical and biological factors. One weekend field trip required.
Name: BIOL 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Design, execution, and analysis of ecological surveys and experiments. Practical field methods for estimating population metrics and describing community structure. Computer techniques for the statistical analysis of ecological data.
Name: BIOL 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: Behavioural, population and community ecology of insects. Interactions between insects and plants and the application of the principles of insect ecology to biological control of insects and weeds.
Name: BIOL 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Description and interpretation of present and past floristic vegetational patterns; integration of evolutionary, ecological, and phytogeographical concepts. Terrestrial and aquatic plants are considered. Restricted to students of third and fourth years.
Name: BIOL 413 Credits: 3 Desciption: The role of physical, ecological, and evolutionary processes in determining the geographic distribution of animals including humans, with implications for speciation and conservation. Restricted to students in third and fourth year.
Name: BIOL 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: Experimental and comparative analysis of evolutionary processes, speciation, and phylogenetic patterns in plants.
Name: BIOL 416 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ecological basis of conserving biological diversity and ecosystem services; application of ecological theory to global and local conservation problems in the context of economic, legal, political, and social perspectives. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
Name: BIOL 417 Credits: 3 Desciption: Biodiversity from an evolutionary perspective. The evolutionary (phylogenetic) tree of genetic descent that links all organisms: its reconstruction, interpretation, and implications for fields from ecology to molecular biology.
Name: BIOL 418 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ecological adaptation and evolutionary processes in contemporary populations; natural selection, variation, optimization, foraging theory, coevolution, arms races; life history theory, evolution of sex, sexual selection, evolution in managed populations.
Name: BIOL 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Biology and physiology of selected plant-microbe relationships. Impacts of plant-microbe relationships on society.
Name: BIOL 427 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ecology, evolution, behavior, and conservation of birds, amphibians, and reptiles.  Laboratories and field projects will focus on identification, systematics, and natural history, with particular attention to species from British Columbia.
Name: BIOL 428 Credits: 3 Desciption: Comparative analysis of marine invertebrate morphology from a macroevolutionary perspective.  Origin and evolution of reoccurring adaptations in meiofaunal, benthic, pelagic, and deep-sea invertebrates, including their larval stages.
Name: BIOL 430 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integration of molecular genetics and genomics with evolutionary biology. Emphasis on the evolutionary dynamics of genomes and the evolutionary implications of recent discoveries in molecular genetics and genomics.
Name: BIOL 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: Major physiological mechanisms that define eukaryotic cells, explored through student visits to UBC research laboratories and discussion of recent scientific literature, with emphasis on the techniques and strategies that enable researchers to test hypotheses and advance new concepts.
Name: BIOL 433 Credits: 4 Desciption: Emphasis on molecular aspects. Systems and techniques for genetic analysis in plants; isolation and regulation of plant genes; genetic dissection of plant-specific processes; transposable elements; gene transfer in plants; cytoplasmic inheritance; genetic engineering.
Name: BIOL 434 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical and experimental aspects of population and quantitative genetics.
Name: BIOL 436 Credits: 3 Desciption: Global transcript, protein, and metabolite profiling technologies and their integration; applications focus on plant functions and plant interactions with pathogens and pests.
Name: BIOL 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: The use of recombinant DNA techniques to explore problems in animal developmental biology.
Name: BIOL 438 Credits: 3 Desciption: Animal systems viewed from a physicist's perspective. Topics include sensory systems, energy budgets, locomotion, internal flows, physical advantages of grouping.
Name: BIOL 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts, principles, applications, and recent discoveries in genome structure, genetics, and comparative genomics in plants with a focus on economically important plants.
Name: BIOL 441 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of cellular organelles and the intracellular traffic between them, concentrating on mammalian cell systems.
Name: BIOL 445 Credits: 3 Desciption: A series of computer-assisted lectures using ichthyology and the work of Charles Darwin to illustrate basic principles of biology, and their practical implementation, i.e., how biologists select research programs, generate and test hypotheses, and present their case to peers and the public.
Name: BIOL 446 Credits: 3 Desciption: The nature of science, this history of evolutionary and molecular biology, philosophical questions about scientific methods and fundamental conclusions of biology.
Name: BIOL 447 Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminars, debates, workshops and tutorials designed to produce competence in specific areas of Biology. Restricted to Honours students in Biology.
Name: BIOL 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: A course designed to allow students to undertake an investigation on a specific topic as agreed upon by the faculty member and the student. Permission of the supervisor required. No more than six credits of BIOL 448 may be taken with the same supervisor.
Name: BIOL 448C Credits: 3 Desciption: A course designed to allow students to undertake an investigation on a specific topic as agreed upon by the faculty member and the student. Permission of the supervisor required. No more than six credits of BIOL 448 may be taken with the same supervisor.
Name: BIOL 448D Credits: 6 Desciption: A course designed to allow students to undertake an investigation on a specific topic as agreed upon by the faculty member and the student. Permission of the supervisor required. No more than six credits of BIOL 448 may be taken with the same supervisor.
Name: BIOL 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: A course designed to allow students to undertake a research project in selected fields. Open only to Honours students in Biology, with permission of the supervisor. Presentation of a thesis and an oral examination are required.
Name: BIOL 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physiological, biochemical, and molecular strategies of adaptation of animals to environmental challenges.  The evolution of genetic and biochemical systems, and their impact on animal structure and function.
Name: BIOL 454 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in physiology emphasizing comparisons between diverse phylogenetic groups of animals.
Name: BIOL 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current approaches in neurobiology, from the cellular to the behavioural level, are examined using representatives of vertebrate and invertebrate nervous systems.
Name: BIOL 457 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of physiological adaptions of animals to different environments.
Name: BIOL 458 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cellular, molecular and physiological aspects of nervous system development with applications to understanding adult nervous system function and neurological disorders.
Name: BIOL 462 Credits: 3 Desciption: The structure, biosynthesis, distribution and biological function of secondary plant metabolites.
Name: BIOL 463 Credits: 3 Desciption: Control of gene expression in development; the genetic and physiological basis of epigenetic determination; inductive interactions.
Name: BIOL 464 Credits: 3 Desciption: Role of genes in embryonic development.  Emphasis on tissue specific expression patterns and the role of genetic networks in establishing cell types.
Name: BIOL 465 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to fish diversity, with a focus on their phylogenetic interrelationships and the evolutionary, ecological, and biogeographic processes involved in generating patterns of fish biodiversity.
Name: BIOL 490A Credits: 3 Desciption: Self-directed, collaborative studies, in a group-learning environment, initiated and coordinated by senior undergraduate students with the supervision of a faculty advisor. Course structure, enrolment, and delivery methods will comply with the "Handbook for Student Directed Seminars". Normally not suitable as a specific BIOL program elective.
Name: BIOL 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting, taken during the Summer Session (Terms 1 and 2) following fourth year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Biology.
Name: BIOL 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Work experience in an industrial research setting, taken during the Winter Session (Terms 1 and 2) following fourth year. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Biology.
Name: BIOL 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 509 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 535 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 548G Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 548I Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 548J Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 548L Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 548M Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 548O Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 548P Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 548Q Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BIOL 548S Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: BIOF 501A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BIOF 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: Develops the student's ability to exchange ideas in small groups focused on real but simplified problems in bioinformatics. Problems are carefully selected to cover all aspects of Bioinformatics research.  Required of students in the Bioinformatics graduate program.  Students not registered in the Bioinformatics graduate program must get permission to register in this course.
Name: BIOF 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BIOF 548A Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced study under the direction of a faculty member composed of laboratory sessions and directed readings related to selected areas of bioinformatics. Students must get permission to register in this course.
Name: BIOF 599 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: BIOF 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: BIOC 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to proteins and enzymes, carbohydrate metabolism, and glucose homeostasis. The course emphasis is on human biochemistry and it is designed for students going into health science fields. Credit will be granted for only one of BIOC 202, BIOC 203 or BIOL 201.
Name: BIOC 203 Credits: 3 Desciption: Amino acids and proteins. Enzymes and enzymology. Human metabolic pathways. Structure, function and metabolism of carbohydrates including glycogen storage and gluconeogenesis. Restricted to students in Biochemistry specializations. Credit will be granted for only one of BIOC 202, BIOC 203 or BIOL 201.
Name: BIOC 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Techniques by which the chemical and physical properties of fundamental components of the cell are studied.
Name: BIOC 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: Metabolic reactions of lipids, steroids, amino acids and nucleotides; the biochemistry of replication, transcription and translation. Credit will be granted for only one of BIOC 300, BIOC 302 or BIOC 303.
Name: BIOC 303 Credits: 6 Desciption: Structure, function and metabolism of lipids, steroids, amino acids and nucleotides; the biochemistry and molecular biology of replication, transcription, translation and gene regulation. For students in Biochemistry and Honours programs in other life sciences.  Credit will be granted for only one of BIOC 300, BIOC 302 or BIOC 303.
Name: BIOC 304 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploration of the breadth and importance of biochemical research to present day challenges in medicine and biotechnology. Detailed experimental research case studies of novel biochemical methods used to address pressing and ongoing biochemical issues.
Name: BIOC 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial or academic laboratory for three or four months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Internship Program in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Name: BIOC 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial or academic research setting for four months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Internship Program in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Name: BIOC 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structural components of proteins, classification by primary, secondary and tertiary structure, protein chemistry and purification, peptide and protein synthesis by chemical means and three-dimensional structure determination using X-ray diffraction and NMR.
Name: BIOC 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Kinetic analysis, catalytic mechanisms, transition state stabilization and regulation of activity, strategies for active site characterization and case studies of well-documented enzyme systems. Credit will be granted for only one of BIOC 403, CHEM 413 or CHEM 569.
Name: BIOC 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theory and application of classical and emerging technologies in biochemical research.  Emphasis on using primary literature and oral presentation skills.  Restricted to Honours students in Biochemistry or others with permission of the instructor.
Name: BIOC 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Chemical, physical and biological properties of nucleic acids and their role in replication, transcription, translation and regulation of expression of genetic material. Credit will be granted for only one of BIOC 410 or BIOC 510.
Name: BIOC 420 Credits: 3 Desciption: Multi-week experiments in areas of contemporary biochemistry research using classical and modern techniques.  Emphasis on experimental design, technique, critical analysis of data, and scientific communication skills.  Restricted to Honours students in Biochemistry and others with permission of the instructor.
Name: BIOC 421 Credits: 3 Desciption: Multi-week experiments involving contemporary nucleic acid research, cloning and recombinant protein engineering. Emphasis is on experimental design, critical analysis of data and scientific communication skills.  Restricted to Major students in Biochemistry.
Name: BIOC 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Developing areas of molecular biology, focusing on experimental design and data analysis. Signal transduction, the use of model eukaryotes, and the regulation of gene expression.
Name: BIOC 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: A library (3 credits) or a laboratory project with written report (3 or 6 credits) allowing a student to undertake an investigation on a specific topic as agreed upon by the faculty and student.
Name: BIOC 448B Credits: 6 Desciption: A library (3 credits) or a laboratory project with written report (3 or 6 credits) allowing a student to undertake an investigation on a specific topic as agreed upon by the faculty and student.
Name: BIOC 449A Credits: 3 Desciption: A research problem under the direction of a faculty member. Restricted to Honours students.
Name: BIOC 449B Credits: 3 Desciption: A research problem under the direction of a faculty member. Restricted to Honours students.
Name: BIOC 449C Credits: 6 Desciption: A research problem under the direction of a faculty member. Restricted to Honours students.
Name: BIOC 450 Credits: 3 Desciption: Biochemistry of membranes and membrane proteins, membrane fusion, electrical signaling, and the involvement of membrane proteins in disease and drug development.
Name: BIOC 460 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical basis and practical applications of a selection of advanced techniques currently used in biochemical research. Topics will vary.
Name: BIOC 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial or academic research setting for four months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Internship Program in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Name: BIOC 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial or academic research setting for four months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Internship Program in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Name: BIOC 501A Credits: 3 Desciption: Practical applications of advanced biochemical techniques. Admission is limited and is by permission of the department head.
Name: BIOC 501C Credits: 6 Desciption: Practical applications of advanced biochemical techniques. Admission is limited and is by permission of the department head.
Name: BIOC 509 Credits: 3 Desciption: The physical properties and functional roles of lipids in membranes, liposomes, membrane permiability; membrane function; structure, biosynthesis and cell sorting of membrane proteins; and the structure-function relationships of channels, transporters and receptors. Given in alternate years.
Name: BIOC 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: A lecture and discussion course on the molecular basis of cellular regulation with special emphasis on mammalian cells. Mechanisms involved in the responses of cells to adrenergic, steroid and peptide hormones and growth factors. Regulation of the concentration and specific activity of key enzymes, transport systems and structural proteins. Given in alternate years.
Name: BIOC 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics will include contemporary theoretical and experimental investigation of protein structure-function relationships. Topics will vary. Given in alternate years.
Name: BIOC 521 Credits: 3 Desciption: Discussions based on topics in the current literature.
Name: BIOC 530 Credits: 3 Desciption: Attendance is required of all graduate students in Biochemistry. Normally students will make a presentation once per year on a topic approved by their research advisor or committee or on the results of their research.
Name: BIOC 548A Credits: 2 Desciption: In special cases, with approval of the department head, advanced courses may be arranged for graduate students in attendance.
Name: BIOC 548B Credits: 3 Desciption: In special cases, with approval of the department head, advanced courses may be arranged for graduate students in attendance.
Name: BIOC 548C Credits: 4 Desciption: In special cases, with approval of the department head, advanced courses may be arranged for graduate students in attendance.
Name: BIOC 548D Credits: 6 Desciption: In special cases, with approval of the department head, advanced courses may be arranged for graduate students in attendance.
Name: BIOC 549 Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: BIOC 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: BAUL 500 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAUL 501 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BASM 501 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BASM 502 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BASM 523 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BASM 530 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of BASM 530 or BAIM 500.
Name: BASM 550 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Not available to MBA students.
Name: BASM 580B Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BASM 590A Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BASC 500 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BASC 523 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BASC 524 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BASC 550 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAPA 550 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAPA 560 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Framework for analyzing economic and managerial problems, fundamental market forces of supply and demand, and the drivers of firms' production and pricing choices.
Name: BAMS 503 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Computer simulation concepts such as Monte Carlo simulation and its benefits; developing simulation models; fitting probability distributions to available data in Excel; analyzing and processing available data for use in simulation models.
Name: BAMS 504 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Simulation concepts such as Discrete Event Simulation and its benefits; queuing processes and theory; performing simulation optimization; discerning appropriateness of steady- state simulation models and conducting them; analyzing simulation outcomes and making comparisons.
Name: BAMS 506 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Models and methods in continuous optimization; linear and nonlinear programming; applications to functional business areas and related fields. Students will learn to formulate an optimization model, solve it, interpret results, and derive insight relevant to intended application.
Name: BAMS 508 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Models and methods in discrete optimization; emphasis on useful modeling methodologies and their applications. Students will learn to formulate an optimization model, solve it, interpret results, and derive insight relevant to intended application.
Name: BAMS 517 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Decision making under uncertainty; using decision trees; the value of information; utility and risk preferences; behavioral aspects of decision making under uncertainty.
Name: BAMS 521 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Non-technical skills and practices for consulting; project management and problem solving for business consulting projects in analytics.
Name: BAMS 523 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAMS 590C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BAMA 503 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAMA 504 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAMA 505 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Study of business development as a tool for creating long-term value from clients, markets and relationships.
Name: BAMA 506 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAMA 508 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAMA 509 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Nature and scope of marketing research problems; methods used to solve those problems, including interview, focus groups, surveys, experiments, and web-tracking paradigms.
Name: BAMA 511 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Proven concepts, techniques, and frameworks for assessing and formulating pricing strategies. Understanding the process of making pricing decisions and exploring innovative approaches for setting prices. State-of-the-art frameworks for analyzing pricing decisions; strategies for revenue model migration and increasing profitability.
Name: BAMA 513 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAMA 514 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Restricted to students in one of the following programs: M.B.A., J.D./M.B.A., M.B.A./M.A.A.P.S., M.Sc.B., M.M., I.M.B.A.; or a Ph.D. with a BADM specialization.
Name: BAMA 516 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Concepts of customer relationship management; metrics for customer loyalty satisfaction; RFM (recency, frequency, monetary) analysis in direct marketing, economics of customer relationship and customer loyalty program designs; exposure to trending topics; managerial understanding; practical analytical experience on real customer databases.
Name: BAMA 517 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Statistical models of customer behaviour and past marketing actions, and applications to determining elements of the marketing mix.
Name: BAMA 550 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BALA 503 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BALA 580A Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAIT 507 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Databases and data management, data designs for business analytics; data access using structured query language; design interfaces facilitating user-centric access and queries.
Name: BAIT 508 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Programming for business analytics; problem definition, software design, program design, and system implementation; development of systems to implement common business applications.
Name: BAIT 509 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms, support vector machines, and ensemble methods for text mining projects. Applications in descriptive and predictive analytics.
Name: BAIT 510 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAIT 511 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAIT 513 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAIT 527 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAHR 505 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAHR 507 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAHR 508 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAHR 516 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Techniques and approaches for building effective teams, handling decision-making in teams, creating reward structures, and developing appropriate leadership models.
Name: BAHR 520 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAHR 550 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 500 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 502 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 507 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 511 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 513 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 516 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 520 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 530 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 532 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 580B Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAFI 580C Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAEN 502 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAEN 505 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAEN 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BAEN 510 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAEN 550 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Not available to M.B.A. students.
Name: BAEN 580 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAEN 580A Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAEN 580B Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAEN 580C Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BABS 502 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Time series forecasting including common smoothing methods and autocorrelation methods; students will work with publicly available data.
Name: BABS 506 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Probability and models that incorporate uncertainty; working with data and extracting information to provide input for predictive and prescriptive analytic models within the Master of Business Analytics program.
Name: BABS 507 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Descriptive data analysis and extraction of useful information; predictive analytics and other clustering techniques; use of appropriate software.
Name: BABS 508 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Application of descriptive analytic skills to predictive analytics; using single/multiple regression, logistic regression and Poisson regression use of Discrete Choice Model.
Name: BABS 550 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Not available to MBA students.
Name: BAAC 501 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAAC 511 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BAAC 550 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Same as HCEC 502; credit will not be given for both.
Name: BAAC 551 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BA 501 Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: BA 504 Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: BA 507 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: BA 508 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: BA 511 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Registration restricted to students in the M.M. Program.
Name: BA 520 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BA 531A Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Online courses offered by schools within the Global Network for Advanced Management (GNAM). Students across the network collaborate virtually on team projects. Credit values for each course vary. Students may take more than one course during their MBA program. Pass/Fail.
Name: BA 531C Credits: 3 Desciption: Online courses offered by schools within the Global Network for Advanced Management (GNAM). Students across the network collaborate virtually on team projects. Credit values for each course vary. Students may take more than one course during their MBA program. Pass/Fail.
Name: BA 532A Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Intensive on-campus study at schools within the Global Network for Advanced Management (GNAM). Face-to-face course activities and lectures, cross-cultural teams, and final presentations on projects. Students can take more than one Global Network Week during their MBA program. Pass/Fail.
Name: BA 551 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Pass/fail.  Registration restricted to students in the M.M. Program.
Name: BA 560 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BA 561 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BA 562 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BA 563 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BA 564 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: BA 580B Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Restricted to students in one of: E.M.B.A., M.B.A., J.D./M.B.A., M.M., or M.B.A./M.A.A.
Name: AUDI 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 403 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 513 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 514A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 514B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: May be taken more than once for credit.
Name: AUDI 516A Credits: 2 Desciption: May be taken more than once for credit.
Name: AUDI 516B Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken more than once for credit.
Name: AUDI 516C Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken more than once for credit.
Name: AUDI 518 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 520A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 520B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 522 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 524 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 526 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 527 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: AUDI 528 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 529 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 530A Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken more than once for credit.
Name: AUDI 530B Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken more than once for credit.
Name: AUDI 530C Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken more than once for credit.
Name: AUDI 540 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 545 Credits: 0 Desciption: Ethics, service delivery systems, practice considerations specific to the work place.
Name: AUDI 546A Credits: 3 Desciption: May be taken for credit more than once.
Name: AUDI 546B Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken for credit more than once.
Name: AUDI 547A Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken more than once.
Name: AUDI 547B Credits: 2 Desciption: May be taken more than once.
Name: AUDI 547C Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken more than once.
Name: AUDI 547D Credits: 3 Desciption: May be taken more than once.
Name: AUDI 547F Credits: 6 Desciption: May be taken more than once.
Name: AUDI 548 Credits: 3 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: AUDI 549 Credits: 6 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: AUDI 550A Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken more than once for credit.
Name: AUDI 550B Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken more than once for credit.
Name: AUDI 550D Credits: 1 Desciption: May be taken more than once for credit.
Name: AUDI 551 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 552 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 553 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 555 Credits: 1 Desciption: Pass/Fail.
Name: AUDI 556 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 557 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 558 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 559 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 563 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 566C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 567 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 567C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 568 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 568C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 569 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 570 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 571 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 572 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 575 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 576 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 577 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 579 Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 580 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 581 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 583 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 585 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 586 Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 593 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 594C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 649 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 660A Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 660B Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 660C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 670C Credits: 3 Desciption: Examination of current research, roles of theories in understanding the relationship between speech sound production and comprehension/perception.
Name: AUDI 685A Credits: 1 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 685B Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AUDI 685C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ATSC 113 Credits: 3 Desciption: Atmospheric-science principles elucidated by case studies applied to snow sports, sailing, surfing, soaring, and flying.
Name: ATSC 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Characteristics and physical processes of thunderstorms, tornadoes, lightning, hail, hurricanes, blizzards, cyclones and other storms.
Name: ATSC 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial, university or government setting for a minimum of 14 weeks. Normally taken in the Winter Session (Term 2) in third year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to Co-operative Education Program in Atmospheric Science.
Name: ATSC 399 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial, university or government setting for a minimum of 14 weeks. Normally taken in the Summer Session (Terms 1 and 2) following third year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Atmospheric Science.
Name: ATSC 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Dynamic principles governing atmospheric motions on a rotating planet. Simplified mathematical models of atmospheric flow based on scale analysis. Application to synoptic-scale and general circulation of the troposphere.
Name: ATSC 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cloud thermodynamics, chemistry and microphysics. Computer modelling of droplet growth, convection, and mixing. Application of differential equations to atmospheric problems.
Name: ATSC 409 Credits: 3 Desciption: Web-based introduction to the practical numerical solution of ordinary and partial differential equations including considerations of stability and accuracy. Credit will be granted for only one of ATSC 409 or ATSC 506/EOSC 511.
Name: ATSC 448A Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student.  Permission of the undergraduate advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required before registration.
Name: ATSC 448B Credits: 3 Desciption: Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student.  Permission of the undergraduate advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required before registration.
Name: ATSC 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: Honours students must submit a graduating report based on a project undertaken with the approval of the Associate Chair of the Atmospheric Science Program.
Name: ATSC 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial, university or government setting for a minimum of 14 weeks. Normally taken in the Summer Session (Terms 1 and 2) after fourth year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Atmospheric Science.
Name: ATSC 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised technical work experience in an industrial, university or government setting for a minimum of 14 weeks. Normally taken in Winter Session (Term 1) of the fifth year. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Co-operative Education Program in Atmospheric Science.
Name: ATSC 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical and empirical analysis of the atmospheric boundary layer with particular emphasis on energy and mass exchanges near the Earth's surface.
Name: ATSC 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of ATSC 409 or ATSC 506/EOSC 511.
Name: ATSC 548A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ATSC 548B Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ATSC 595A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: ATSC 595D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ATSC 597 Credits: 3 Desciption: Restricted to students admitted to the M.Sc. Co-operative Education Option in Atmospheric Science.
Name: ATSC 598 Credits: 3 Desciption: Restricted to students admitted to the M.Sc. Co-operative Education Option in Atmospheric Science.
Name: ATSC 599A Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: ATSC 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: ASTU 100 Credits: 6 Desciption: CAP seminar focused on writing and reading, including both literature and introduction to academic scholarship. Topics vary each year. Credits count toward both the Faculty of Arts Writing and Research Requirement and the Literature Requirement. Restricted to students in the Coordinated Arts Program.
Name: ASTU 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of and practice in academic writing and reading in the social sciences and the humanities. Restricted to students in the Coordinated Arts Program.
Name: ASTU 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: An interdisciplinary introduction to the cultures of Canada and Japan, and the interrelations between them. Specific topics vary from year to year but will include themes such as constructing the past; nationalism; self-perceptions; cross-cultural perceptions; multiculturalism in Canada and Japan; images in architecture, film and literature; mythologies.
Name: ASTU 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: An interdisciplinary introduction to political, economic and geographical interactions between Japan and Canada, the links between these countries and other Pacific Rim nations, and the historical origins of these connections. Specific topics will vary from year to year, but will include themes such as economic integration in the Pacific region; the role of resource economies such as Canada's; security relations in the Pacific; the role of Japanese investment in the Asia-Pacific region.
Name: ASTU 204A Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected interdisciplinary topics in Arts studies.  For upcoming offerings including course descriptions and possible enrolment restrictions, please see section information in the UBC course schedule.
Name: ASTU 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Orientation workshops. Final work term report required. Restricted to students in the Arts Co-operative Education Program.
Name: ASTU 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term report required.
Name: ASTU 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and practice of conducting research in community partnership.
Name: ASTU 400N Credits: 3 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400P Credits: 3 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400Q Credits: 6 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400R Credits: 3 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400S Credits: 6 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400T Credits: 3 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400U Credits: 3 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400V Credits: 3 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400W Credits: 3 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400X Credits: 3 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400Y Credits: 3 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 400Z Credits: 3 Desciption: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually.
Name: ASTU 401G Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics offered by a distinguished visitor to the campus. For upcoming offerings including course descriptions and possible enrolment restrictions, please see section information in the UBC course schedule.
Name: ASTU 401H Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics offered by a distinguished visitor to the campus. For upcoming offerings including course descriptions and possible enrolment restrictions, please see section information in the UBC course schedule.
Name: ASTU 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term report.
Name: ASTU 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: Optional extra work placement. Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term report.
Name: ASTU 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Optional extra work placement. Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term report.
Name: ASTU 412A Credits: 3 Desciption: Optional extra work placement. Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term report.
Name: ASTU 412B Credits: 3 Desciption: Optional extra work placement. Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term report.
Name: ASTU 501 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised paid work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final written report required. Restricted to Master's degree students in departments with approved co-op programs.
Name: ASTU 502 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASTU 503 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASTU 610 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised paid work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Orientation, workshops, and co-op assignments required. Restricted to Ph.D. degree students in departments with Ph.D. approved co-op programs.
Name: ASTU 611 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASTU 612 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASTU 613 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASTR 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: General principles of the celestial sphere, laws of motion and light, optics, and telescopes; current knowledge of the Sun and Solar System.
Name: ASTR 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Modern stellar and extragalactic astronomy. Stars and stellar evolution from protostars to black holes; galaxies and quasars; cosmology. ASTR 200/205 rather than ASTR 102 are recommended for students who intend to pursue studies in Astronomy.
Name: ASTR 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Stellar masses and evolution. White dwarfs, neutron stars, and black holes. Extrasolar planet formation and detection. Dark matter in the Milky Way and other galaxies. Cosmological observations and principles.
Name: ASTR 205 Credits: 3 Desciption: Measurement of positions, motions, and distances in astronomy.  Temperature, masses, and spectra of stars.  Hertzsprung-Russell diagram.  Quantitative stellar structure and evolution.  Chemical composition of stars in different Galactic populations. Globular and open star clusters.
Name: ASTR 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structure and kinematics of our galaxy. Spiral arms and dynamics of stars in spiral and elliptical galaxies. Galactic formation, evolution, dynamics, and groups. Active galaxies and quasars.
Name: ASTR 310 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of recent discoveries about the planets and other objects in the solar system, without the use of advanced mathematics. The Sun, the existence of planetary systems around other stars, and the search for life. Not open to first year students and not for credit in the Faculties of Science and Applied Science.
Name: ASTR 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of recent discoveries in modern astronomy without the use of advanced mathematics. Stars, pulsars, black holes, galaxies, quasars and the origin and evolution of the Universe. Not open to first year students and not for credit in the Faculties of Science and Applied Science.
Name: ASTR 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Observations and basic characteristics of extrasolar planets, including their formation, evolution, and potential for supporting life. Not to be used to satisfy any Physics and Astronomy major or honours specialization requirement, but may be used as an upper-level science elective.
Name: ASTR 349 Credits: 3 Desciption: A research project, undertaken under the direction of a faculty member, culminating in a written report.  Requires approval of the course instructor and program advisor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy.
Name: ASTR 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the study of the Universe as a whole. Foundations of the Hot Big Bang model, the early Universe, nucleosynthesis, the cosmic microwave background, large-scale structure, galaxy formation and quasars. Credit will be granted for only one of ASTR 403 or PHYS 571.
Name: ASTR 404 Credits: 3 Desciption: Astronomical instrumentation and techniques for ground and space-based observations. Theory of measurement, imaging, interferometry and spectroscopy of electromagnetic radiation at optical, radio, infrared, and X-ray wavelengths. Astronomical data analysis.
Name: ASTR 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Experiments in the use of astronomical instrumentation and data analysis. Use of the 40-cm reflector, spectrograph and electronic detectors. Photometric and spectroscopic analysis of digital data.
Name: ASTR 406 Credits: 3 Desciption: Radiative processes. White dwarfs, neutron stars, and black holes. Accreting systems. Gamma-ray bursts.
Name: ASTR 407 Credits: 3 Desciption: Structure of planetary systems, planetary interiors, planet formation, planetary atmospheres, meteoritics, impact cratering.
Name: ASTR 449 Credits: 6 Desciption: A research project in astronomy, undertaken under the direction of a faculty member, culminating in a thesis.
Name: ASTR 505B Credits: 3 Desciption: The study of the structure, content and evolution of our own and other galaxies, including the study of the physical processes occurring in the interstellar medium and galactic nuclei.
Name: ASTR 506A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASTR 507A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASTR 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASTR 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: ASTR 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: ASIC 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected global issues explored through the methodologies and perspectives of both the physical and life sciences and the humanities and social sciences.
Name: ASIC 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: Sustainability examined from scientific, economic, and societal perspectives.
Name: ASIA 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the histories and cultures of Asia before 1600 and the coming of the Europeans. Emphasis will be given to parallel themes in the development of the civilizations of South, Southeast and East Asia.
Name: ASIA 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the emergence of modern Asia. Aims at an understanding of how the various peoples of Asia have maintained distinctive cultural identities despite centuries of political, economic, social and cultural change.
Name: ASIA 208 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of South Asian cultures, including language and literature, art, religion, polity and society, as they developed in the past and have been transformed in the modern period.
Name: ASIA 250 Credits: 3 Desciption: Origins, basic teachings, development of Theravada, Mahayana, and Tantric traditions, historical spread first through Asia and later the world, and Buddhism in contemporary societies.
Name: ASIA 254 Credits: 3 Desciption: The integral role that sex, gender, and sexuality play in literary and cinematic works from Japan. Literary works will be read in translation, movies will be subtitled.
Name: ASIA 258 Credits: 3 Desciption: The major religious traditions of South Asia, including Hinduism, Islam, Sikhism, and Buddhism; the significance of religious thought and practice in premodern India, as well as the continuing impact of religion in today's globalized South Asia.
Name: ASIA 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Practical, aesthetic, historical, technological and political issues pertaining to the use of Chinese characters - hanzi (Chinese), kanji (Japanese), or hanccha (Korean) - throughout the region.
Name: ASIA 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Buddhism from the nineteenth century to present day with special emphasis on its history and character in local settings, including specific traditions such as Tibetan Nyingma and Japanese Zen, as well as the development of a modern and global "Buddhism."
Name: ASIA 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: History, story, and culture of the major form of Buddhism primarily focused on the regions of Sri Lanka, and mainland Southeast Asia, including southern Vietnam, parts of southern China, spread to Nepal, and modern global diffusion.
Name: ASIA 303 Credits: 3 Desciption: Historical and philosophical development of Mahayana Buddhism.
Name: ASIA 307 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of Korean language and writing using approaches from sociolinguistics, the sociology of language, and linguistic anthropology.
Name: ASIA 308 Credits: 3 Desciption: Myths of creation Gods and goddesses of the Vedic pantheon. Connections with myths in other parts of the world, particularly in the Indo-European tradition. Literary representations of the myths.
Name: ASIA 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Religious terrain of the Tibetan cultural realm, looking at the history and development of Tibetan Buddhism and key ideas of the four main Tibetan Buddhist traditions.
Name: ASIA 313 Credits: 3 Desciption: History and culture of the Himalayan regions, including India, China, Tibet, Nepal, and Bhutan.
Name: ASIA 314 Credits: 3 Desciption: Japanese history (political, economic, social and cultural) to 1600.
Name: ASIA 315 Credits: 3 Desciption: Japanese history from 1600 to the Meiji Restoration. Political, economic, social and cultural forces which were involved in transforming Japan.
Name: ASIA 316 Credits: 3 Desciption: Examines relations between majority and minority groups in Japanese society and changing definitions of "Japan" through literature and film from Japan.
Name: ASIA 317 Credits: 3 Desciption: The evolution of a distinctive Korean civilization within the East Asian cultural sphere. Primary focus on cultural, social and political development from the earliest times to the sixteenth century.
Name: ASIA 320 Credits: 3 Desciption: History of China from the earliest times to the disintegration of the Tang empire. Students will acquire the analytical skills and tools to understand the origins and foundations of Chinese society.
Name: ASIA 324 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the literature of Hong Kong, from classical times to the present. Important periods in literary history (imperial, colonial, post-colonial), major authors (locals, visitors, and writers elsewhere), and important genres, including poetry, essays, and fiction.
Name: ASIA 325 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the cinema of Hong Kong from the post-war period to the present. The influence of Hong Kong on global cinema, and the forces (artists, studios, audiences, etc.) that have given rise to filmmaking styles and genres perceived as "distinctively Hong Kong."
Name: ASIA 326 Credits: 3 Desciption: A critical introduction to Japanese manga and anime in the 20th and 21st centuries.
Name: ASIA 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: History, contexts, and the genres of Korean popular music. Students will analyze specific artists and songs using a range of approaches. While an understanding of basic concepts of music will be helpful, no previous exposure to ethnomusicology or music performance is required.
Name: ASIA 332 Credits: 3 Desciption: Key ideas and trends in Confucian thought and practice from its origins to modern times through primary sources in translation and secondary scholarship.
Name: ASIA 333 Credits: 3 Desciption: Main theories and key concepts with a particular focus on the changing status of women, and gender and sexual minorities.
Name: ASIA 337 Credits: 3 Desciption: The transformation of Korea from a Confucian state into an industrial nation. The rise of nationalism and modern ideologies in Korea. Cultural, social and economic changes Korea has undergone as it has entered the modern world.
Name: ASIA 341 Credits: 3 Desciption: Poetry, historical and philosophic prose writings and the earliest genres of fiction in classical Chinese (ca. 1100 BC  ca. 750 AD).
Name: ASIA 342 Credits: 3 Desciption: Readings in drama and fiction, 800 to 1800 AD. The emergence of vernacular genres as distinct from and sometimes opposed to the existing classical genres.
Name: ASIA 346A Credits: 3 Desciption: Focuses each year on a specific topic related to the culture of early modern Japan.
Name: ASIA 347 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to Korean literature from ancient times to 1900.
Name: ASIA 351 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reading of selected novels and stories written between 1750 and the present.
Name: ASIA 354 Credits: 3 Desciption: Students will be introduced to the work of the major directors (e.g., Ozu, Mizoguchi, Kurosawa, Itami, Oshima, Shinoda). Ideological uses of literary texts and period pieces (e.g., Ugetsu, Life of Oharu, Double Suicide). Impact of depiction of Japanese in American film.
Name: ASIA 355 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the work of major directors.
Name: ASIA 356 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to the work of the major film makers.
Name: ASIA 357 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected fiction and poetry written between 1917 and the present.
Name: ASIA 364D Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the literature and cultural history of modern Japan, with readings drawn from various literary genres, from 1868 to the present.
Name: ASIA 365 Credits: 3 Desciption: Punjabi culture, history, and social values through films.  The class includes film viewings and seminar discussions.  Films will be screened with English subtitles.
Name: ASIA 367 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the literature, drama, music, and art of Korea today. Particular attention will be paid to the continuing influence of traditional themes and forms.
Name: ASIA 371 Credits: 3 Desciption: Chinese thought from its beginnings until the Han dynasty (206 BCE to 220 CE) in its historical and cultural contexts. Includes, among others: Confucius; Mo Zi; the Legalists/Authoritarians; Zhuang Zi; the Lao Zi book.
Name: ASIA 372 Credits: 3 Desciption: Chinese thought from the Han dynasty (206 BCE to 220 CE) to Wang Yangming (1472-1529) in its historical and cultural contexts.
Name: ASIA 373 Credits: 3 Desciption: History, culture, and identities of Hong Kong from the early 1800s to the present.
Name: ASIA 377 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of Korean religious, philosophical, and scientific thought from the earliest written records to the present day, with particular focus on the interaction of Shamanism, Buddhism, Confucianism, and, in the present century, Christianity.
Name: ASIA 381 Credits: 3 Desciption: A study of the Daoist religious traditions from their beginnings in the second century CE in their cultural, intellectual and social contexts.
Name: ASIA 382 Credits: 3 Desciption: History, thought, and practices of Chinese Buddhism from its beginnings until the twentieth century.
Name: ASIA 386 Credits: 3 Desciption: In-depth examination of modern Chinese grammar and its usage including word formation, syntactic constructions, discourse cohesions, semantics, and stylistic considerations.
Name: ASIA 387 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to traditional Japanese religions including Shinto, Buddhism, Shugendo, Confucianism, new religions and folklore, and their roles in Japanese history, culture and society.
Name: ASIA 388 Credits: 3 Desciption: Debates on issues of epistemology, language and ontology among the philosophical schools or systems of classical India Nagarjuna, Bhartrhari, Uma-svati, Sankara and others.
Name: ASIA 390 Credits: 3 Desciption: Societies and empires shaped by voyages of exploration, religious pilgrimages, trading diasporas and forced migration in the world of the Indian Ocean.
Name: ASIA 392 Credits: 3 Desciption: Works of classical Persian literature dating from the tenth to the seventeenth century (in English translation).
Name: ASIA 393 Credits: 3 Desciption: Iranian history from the fall of the Sasanian empire and the Arab conquest of Iran to the rise of Iranian dynasties in the east, the reign of Turkic and Turko-Mongolian rulers, and the formation of a Shiite Iran under the Safavids.
Name: ASIA 394 Credits: 3 Desciption: Gender politics, family relationships, and women's social, economic, and political roles in post-revolutionary Iran as shown through Iranian cinema.
Name: ASIA 396 Credits: 3 Desciption: In-depth examination of modern Chinese grammar and its usage including word formation, syntactic constructions, discourse cohesions, semantics, and stylistic considerations. Continuation of ASIA 386.
Name: ASIA 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Stories of gods, goddesses and religious heroes from the Ramayana, Mahabharata, Puranas, Avadanas and in classical poetry and drama.
Name: ASIA 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: International relations, particularly between Korea and Japan in the premodern East Asian context, focusing on migration, trade, diplomacy, war, collective memory, mutual perceptions, and the context of the Sinocentric international order.
Name: ASIA 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: Chinese theories and practices of government and administration from earliest times to 1949.
Name: ASIA 427 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of one of the primary areas of Korean popular culture, such as television dramas, film, K-Pop music, graphic novels and webtoons, or Hanshik cuisine.
Name: ASIA 433 Credits: 3 Desciption: Depictions of Muslims in South Asian cinema, with a particular focus on the Hindi film industry.
Name: ASIA 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: An in-depth examination of the construction, transmission, and transformation of Chinese culture(s) prior to 1800. Completion of at least 9 credits of 300- or 400-level ASIA recommended prior to registration. Credit will be granted for only one of ASIA 440 or HIST 479.
Name: ASIA 444 Credits: 3 Desciption: Focuses on a limited time period or particular aspect of modern Japanese literature.
Name: ASIA 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: Study of one influential modern Chinese author, such as Lu Xun, Shen Congwen, Eileen Chang, Yu Hua, Mo Yan, or Wang Anyi.
Name: ASIA 453 Credits: 3 Desciption: Japanese travel literature (myths, legends, poetry, tales, diaries, illustrated guides, satiric sermons, haiku, comic fiction, colonial reporting, and ethnography) from the 8th century to present.
Name: ASIA 456 Credits: 3 Desciption: The major social, economic, political, and cultural changes in Taiwan since the seventeenth century; the post-World War II process of democratization and Taiwans place in the contemporary world.
Name: ASIA 475 Credits: 3 Desciption: Exploration of the history of the Punjabi Canadian community through traditional text-based methods and oral history collection (in English or Punjabi).
Name: ASIA 488 Credits: 3 Desciption: History of secular and religious discourse in post-independent India. Partition, state policy of secularism, religious mobilization among Hindus and Muslims, communal violence and religious radicalism.
Name: ASIA 490B Credits: 3 Desciption: Focus changes from year to year. Prerequisite: Permission of Instructor and fourth-year standing.
Name: ASIA 495 Credits: 3 Desciption: The mediation of folklore (e.g. slang, songs, games, dance, foodways) in the everyday lives of immigrant and transnational Asian communities. Emphasis on Asian-Canadian folklore in Greater Vancouver through digital documentary media production and archival folklore research.
Name: ASIA 499 Credits: 3 Desciption: Restricted to fourth-year students admitted to the Honours Program in Asian Studies.
Name: ASIA 503A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 506A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 508A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 511B Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected readings from primary texts in Confucianism, Taoism and Buddhism, and popular religion.
Name: ASIA 514B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 515A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 521B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 528A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 532A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 533A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 533B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 541A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 561B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 562 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 570A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 570B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 580A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 580B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 581B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 587A Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of ASIA 587 or ASIA 484.
Name: ASIA 591 Credits: 3 Desciption: Proseminar introducing major methodological and conceptual themes in the contemporary study of Asia, modern and pre-modern. Required of all Asian Studies PhD students, normally in their first year.
Name: ASIA 599B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: ASIA 699 Credits: 0 Desciption: In Chinese, Japanese, or South Asian Studies only.
Name: ARTS 001A Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: ARTS 001B Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: Drawing on examples from across history and around the world, this course deals with the role of the visual in society, culture, and everyday experience.
Name: ARTH 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts and issues critical to the understanding of art and its histories in a global context.
Name: ARTH 225 Credits: 3 Desciption: A selective survey of painting, sculpture, and architecture.
Name: ARTH 226 Credits: 3 Desciption: A selective survey of painting, sculpture, and architecture from the 16th century to the emergence of the modern era.
Name: ARTH 227 Credits: 3 Desciption: A selective survey of visual art, architecture and other visual media since 1900.
Name: ARTH 253 Credits: 3 Desciption: Select built forms in Asia, such as temples, tombs, palaces, cities and gardens, and their relations to cultural, social and political systems.
Name: ARTH 300 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theories, problems, and literature in the study of art history. Required of all Major and Honours students in art history.
Name: ARTH 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: From pagan adornment to Christian devotion to service of Christian or Islamic rule (AD 500 - 1000). Credit will be granted for only one of ARTH 311 or ARTH 331.
Name: ARTH 321 Credits: 3 Desciption: Visual art and culture within the social, political, and religious contexts of the Papacy and the city-states.
Name: ARTH 338 Credits: 3 Desciption: Art, architecture, and social space in Europe and America: redefining gender, identity and nation in the era of industrialization and political change.
Name: ARTH 339 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ideologies of gender, class, race, ethnicity, and economics in 19th-century European and American visual culture.
Name: ARTH 340 Credits: 3 Desciption: A critical survey of western art and cultural production from the turn of the century to the development of Pop Art.
Name: ARTH 341 Credits: 3 Desciption: A critical examination of international visual art and culture from the 1950s to the present;  the role of art in consumerist society and the emergence of postmodernism.
Name: ARTH 344 Credits: 3 Desciption: Art movements and art institutions from the landscape paintings of the Group of Seven to the photo-conceptualist practices of the Vancouver school.
Name: ARTH 345 Credits: 3 Desciption: History and theory of photography, from the competitive context of invention in the 1830s to contemporary uses in social media.
Name: ARTH 351B Credits: 3 Desciption: A thematic study of visual arts, architecture, and objects from the Islamic world.
Name: ARTH 352 Credits: 3 Desciption: North and South Indian art and architecture with an emphasis on Buddhism and Hinduism.
Name: ARTH 353 Credits: 3 Desciption: Art of the Himalayan region situated within social and religious practices, festivals, and performances.
Name: ARTH 358 Credits: 3 Desciption: Close analyses of Chinese tomb objects and tombs as spatial constructs in their historical, ritual, and social context.
Name: ARTH 363 Credits: 3 Desciption: Key debates in the history of painting and its institutionalization.
Name: ARTH 368 Credits: 3 Desciption: Historical and theoretical questions concerning the development of print media in Japan, from Edo period woodcuts to the advent of digital technologies.
Name: ARTH 377 Credits: 3 Desciption: The histories, historiography and cultural diversity of the Southern  Northwest Coast region; persistence and innovation in the arts in communities, and in cross-cultural and market spheres.
Name: ARTH 380 Credits: 3 Desciption: Relationship between artistic practice and media, examined through a history of paradigm shifts in technology.
Name: ARTH 397A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 432 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 439 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 448 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 455 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 458 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 464 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 479 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced performance art practices and research methodologies.
Name: ARTH 480 Credits: 3 Desciption: A thematic examination of key arguments in visual and digital media theory, focusing on developments in lens-based and digital media in relationship to twentieth-century and contemporary artistic practice.
Name: ARTH 535A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 539A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 540B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 543B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 571 Credits: 6 Desciption: Required of all art history graduate students.
Name: ARTH 577A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 577B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 577C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 599 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ARTH 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 510 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 520 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 540 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 545 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 554 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 555 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 556H Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 556K Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 560 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 565 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 570 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 573 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 575H Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 575J Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 580 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 587 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 592A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 592B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 594A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 594B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 595 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 596 Credits: 3 Desciption: Project-based experience undertaken with a faculty associate occupying a minimum of ten hours a week for 12 consecutive weeks or the equivalent time. Evaluation: Pass/Fail.
Name: ARST 599A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ARST 599B Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: ARCL 103 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of world archaeology, from the emergence of humankind to the beginning of state societies.
Name: ARCL 140 Credits: 3 Desciption: The origin and evolution of the human lineage and the emergence of human biological and cultural traits with emphasis on the fossil record before the Pleistocene. Credit will be granted for only one of ARCL 140 or ANTH 225.
Name: ARCL 203 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduces the methods and principles applied in anthropological archaeology and cultural-historical research.
Name: ARCL 204 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of some momentous discoveries in archaeology that have shaped our knowledge of the ancient world and the history of humanity.
Name: ARCL 228 Credits: 3 Desciption: The application of methods from biological anthropology and archaeology to the identification, recovery, and analysis of skeletal remains from crime scenes, mass disasters, and unexplained deaths.
Name: ARCL 231 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introductory survey of North American archaeology comparing the ancient cultures from all major regions of Canada and the US.
Name: ARCL 305 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current theoretical developments explored through the practice of archaeology. Examples drawn from a range of times and places focusing on emerging technologies, food production, colonial encounters and culture contact, materiality and symbolic systems, social inequality and complexity, and human-environmental interactions.
Name: ARCL 309 Credits: 3 Desciption: An evaluation of the issues of sustainability and collapse of ecological and social systems through the archaeological study of the past.
Name: ARCL 318 Credits: 3 Desciption: Early hunter-gatherer-forager societies, spanning the period from the emergence of the first tool-using hominins to the origins of agriculture.
Name: ARCL 326 Credits: 3 Desciption: A comprehensive survey of primates, with emphasis on evolution, ecology, social organization,  social behaviour, and field studies.
Name: ARCL 405 Credits: 3 Desciption: Current methods in mapping spatial information in archaeology and related subfields of anthropology.
Name: ARCL 406A Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of methods and techniques in the interpretation of archaeological data; practical experience in processing and analyzing archaeological materials by means of a research project. Students will prepare manuscripts, drawings and photographs for publication and will learn the basics of lithic and faunal analyses.
Name: ARCL 419 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of methods, theory, and case-studies in mortuary archaeology.
Name: ARCL 424 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of the use of archaeology in the public context and interest, particularly the identification, evaluation, conservation, and management of archaeological resources.  Laws and policies, principles, methods, and ethical concerns guiding current practices, public involvement, relationships with indigenous communities, and contemporary issues in cultural resources management.
Name: ARCL 425 Credits: 3 Desciption: The archaeological evidence for the change of human diets over time and the methods used to reconstruct past diets.
Name: ARCH 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to a broad range of themes in architecture and design. Restricted to B.En.D. students.
Name: ARCH 404A Credits: 3 Desciption: History of architecture in the pre-1900 time period. Technological, political, social, and economic changes that have influenced architecture and related fields.
Name: ARCH 404B Credits: 3 Desciption: History of architecture in the pre-1900 time period. Technological, political, social, and economic changes that have influenced architecture and related fields.
Name: ARCH 405A Credits: 3 Desciption: History of architecture in the post-1900 time period. Technological, political, social, and economic changes which have influenced architecture and related fields.
Name: ARCH 405B Credits: 3 Desciption: History of architecture in the post-1900 time period. Technological, political, social, and economic changes which have influenced architecture and related fields.
Name: ARCH 411 Credits: 3 Desciption: An investigation of building materials and systems considering design objectives, environmental conditions, historical context, regulatory controls, and economic constraints. The major building systems of light wood frame, steel, and concrete and the technical and expressive opportunities inherent in each. Credit will be granted for only one of ARCH 411 or DES 232. Restricted to B.En.D. students.
Name: ARCH 437 Credits: 3 Desciption: Advanced modeling, rendering and image processing applications; the construction of geometric models, their viewing transformations, light and material attributes; mapping and rendering are introduced. Credit will be granted for one of ARCH 437, ARCH 517 or DES 212. Restricted to B.En.D. students.
Name: ARCH 500 Credits: 9 Desciption: A series of projects focusing on conceptual development, design synthesis, principles of typology, organization and representation.
Name: ARCH 501 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: ARCH 502 Credits: 2 Desciption: Commences in August the two weeks prior to Labour Day. Enrolment mandatory for all incoming students. A non-refundable fee will charged to cover expenses. Credit will be granted for only one of ARCH 502 or LARC 511.
Name: ARCH 504A Credits: 3 Desciption: History of architecture in the pre-1900 time period. Technological, political, social, and economic changes that have influenced architecture and related fields.
Name: ARCH 504B Credits: 3 Desciption: History of architecture in the pre-1900 time period. Technological, political, social, and economic changes that have influenced architecture and related fields.
Name: ARCH 505A Credits: 3 Desciption: History of architecture in the post-1900 time period. Technological, political, social, and economic changes which have influenced architecture and related fields.
Name: ARCH 505B Credits: 3 Desciption: History of architecture in the post-1900 time period. Technological, political, social, and economic changes which have influenced architecture and related fields.
Name: ARCH 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: Architectural technology, including materials and methods, construction types, and building system integration. Strong emphasis on enclosure performance with focus on smaller buildings and light wood framing construction.
Name: ARCH 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: Quantitative and qualitative means for understanding of statics, materials and flow of force through a structure.
Name: ARCH 513 Credits: 3 Desciption: Building form and fabric considerations to assure appropriate thermal, luminous, sonic, and atmospheric conditions within buildings.
Name: ARCH 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Foundations of manual and digital skills and concepts employing a variety of subjects, techniques and software. Credit will be granted for only one of ARCH 515, DES 211 or ENDS 320.
Name: ARCH 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: Intermediate manual and digital skills and concepts employing a variety of subjects, techniques and software. Credit will be granted for only one of ARCH 517, ARCH 437 or DES 212.
Name: ARCH 520 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: ARCH 521 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: ARCH 523 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical propositions and their built manifestations.
Name: ARCH 531 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and design of advanced assemblies. Integration of multiple building systems within a wide range of construction types, and more complex enclosures in a variety of climatic conditions. Emphasis on technical performance, durability and sustainability.
Name: ARCH 532 Credits: 3 Desciption: Complex multi-span and continuous systems: effective material configuration, approximate methods of analysis, selection of appropriate structural systems, earthquake configuration and high rises.
Name: ARCH 533 Credits: 3 Desciption: Mechanical and electrical services of buildings and their integration with architectural form and fabric.
Name: ARCH 538A Credits: 3 Desciption: More than one section may be taken concurrently.
Name: ARCH 538B Credits: 3 Desciption: More than one section may be taken concurrently.
Name: ARCH 538C Credits: 3 Desciption: More than one section may be taken concurrently.
Name: ARCH 539 Credits: 9 Desciption: Design studio component of term-long study abroad offering.
Name: ARCH 540 Credits: 9 Desciption: 
Name: ARCH 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: Ethical, legal and business context of professional practice, including contracts, project management.
Name: ARCH 543 Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics across a range of practice related subject matter.
Name: ARCH 544N Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of selected topics in architecture. Enrolment is limited to facilitate discussion.
Name: ARCH 544S Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of selected topics in architecture. Enrolment is limited to facilitate discussion.
Name: ARCH 544X Credits: 3 Desciption: An exploration of selected topics in architecture. Enrolment is limited to facilitate discussion.
Name: ARCH 545A Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed research and exploration of selected topics in architecture.
Name: ARCH 545B Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed research and exploration of selected topics in architecture.
Name: ARCH 545C Credits: 3 Desciption: Directed research and exploration of selected topics in architecture.
Name: ARCH 548 Credits: 3 Desciption: Preparation of a graduation design project including literature review.
Name: ARCH 549 Credits: 9 Desciption: Design component, completion, and defense of the graduation design project.
Name: ARCH 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: Understanding the role, composition, organization, and conventions of the formal documentation necessary for communication of an architectural design to those undertaking the construction.
Name: ARCH 555 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience for a minimum of 4 months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Architecture Co-op Education Program.
Name: ARCH 556 Credits: 3 Desciption: Approved and supervised work experience for a minimum of 4 months. Technical report required. Restricted to students admitted to the Architecture Co-op Education Program.
Name: ARCH 561B Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics across a range of history/theory-based subject matter.
Name: ARCH 568 Credits: 3 Desciption: Contemporary concerns and issues associated with research in architecture and landscape architecture.
Name: ARCH 571B Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics across a range of building material and construction technology-based subject matter.
Name: ARCH 573E Credits: 3 Desciption: An investigation of specialized environmental topics concerning theory and the practice of architecture.
Name: ARCH 574 Credits: 3 Desciption: Enhanced building environmental performance and the integration of green building principles, strategies and technologies.
Name: ARCH 577A Credits: 3 Desciption: Topics across a range of design media-based subject matter.
Name: ARCH 598 Credits: 12 Desciption: Restricted to M.A.S.A. candidates.
Name: ARBC 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARBC 102 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ARBC 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Increased reading ability as well as learning the further essentials of grammar.
Name: ARBC 202 Credits: 3 Desciption: Increased reading ability as well as learning the further essentials of grammar. Continuation of ARBC 201.
Name: APSC 100 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
Name: APSC 101 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the engineering profession including: the engineering design process, sustainability, prototype testing, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, team functioning, engineering graphics, and technical communication.
Name: APSC 110 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.
Name: APSC 160 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and simulation, laboratory data acquisition and processing, measurement interfaces, engineering tools, computer systems organization, programming languages. Credit will only be given for one of: APSC 160, CPSC 301, or EOSC 211.
Name: APSC 172 Credits: 3 Desciption: Functions, limits, differentiation, applications of derivatives, integration, applications of definite integrals.
Name: APSC 173 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integrals and transcendental functions, techniques of integration, applications of integration, polar coordinates, infinite sequences and series, vectors and the geometry of space, and partial derivatives.
Name: APSC 176 Credits: 3 Desciption: Purpose, audience, content, format, and tone are studied, as are team-based report writings and presentations. Community Service Learning projects are integrated into existing assignments. An LPI level 5 is required for registration in this course.
Name: APSC 178 Credits: 4 Desciption: Coulomb's law, electric field, Gauss' law, electric potential, conductors, capacitance, electric currents, resistance, DC circuits, magnetic fields and forces, sources of magnetic fields, electromagnetic induction, mechanical waves, electromagnetic waves, light propagation, geometrical optics.
Name: APSC 182 Credits: 3 Desciption: Thermometry, states of matter and phase change, ideal and real gases, 1st law of thermodynamics, 2nd law of thermodynamics, liquids, solutions.
Name: APSC 183 Credits: 3 Desciption: Atomic structures and bonding, solid crystals, chemical equilibrium, reactions in gas phase and in aqueous solutions, acid-base and redox reactions, kinetics of chemical reactions, thermochemistry, electrochemistry.
Name: APSC 201 Credits: 3 Desciption: Written and oral communication in engineering. Report preparation, business correspondence, and oral presentation of technical material. Credit will be granted for only one of ELEC 281, CPEN 281, BMEG 201 or APSC 201.
Name: APSC 210 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.
Name: APSC 261 Credits: 3 Desciption: The course deals with the influence of technology on the social, political, economic, and environmental aspects of society. The specific subject matter varies from year to year. Examples of subjects considered include, resources, energy, nuclear power, technology, the effects of technology on the family, education, agriculture, international policy and others.
Name: APSC 262 Credits: 3 Desciption: The course deals with the influence of technology on the social, political, economic and environmental aspects of society. The subject matter varies from year to year and differs from APSC 261. It may be taken as a continuation of APSC 261 or taken independently. Examples of subjects considered include pollution, work place health hazards, social impact of computers, problem solving, green revolution, technology and the third world, engineering ethics and others.
Name: APSC 278 Credits: 3 Desciption: Atomic bonding; crystal structures and imperfections; properties of metals, ceramics, polymers, wood, concrete and fibre composite materials; selection of materials; corrosion; mechanical testing and heat treatment.
Name: APSC 279 Credits: 1 Desciption: Atomic bonding; crystal structures and imperfections; properties of metals, ceramics, polymers, wood, concrete and fibre composite materials; selection of materials; corrosion; mechanical testing and heat treatment.
Name: APSC 310 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.
Name: APSC 366 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to engineering for the non-specialist. A case-studies approach includes examples from sustainability-related technology, consumer products, structures, and energy conversion.
Name: APSC 377 Credits: 3 Desciption: The evolution and contemporary significance of nuclear weapons and arms control policy and technology from the perspective of the physical and life sciences and the social sciences and humanities.
Name: APSC 410 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an established company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and the Co-operative Education Program.
Name: APSC 411 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an approved company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and Co-operative Education.
Name: APSC 412 Credits: 6 Desciption: Supervised, technical work experience in an approved company or organization for a minimum of three months. Technical report. Restricted to students meeting the requirements of the Faculty of Applied Science and Co-operative Education Programs.
Name: APSC 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Management topics are presented from the perspective of technology-based industrial practice; project management, marketing and marketing planning, product development and commercialization, introduction to quality management, teamwork and effective individual participation.
Name: APSC 450 Credits: 2 Desciption: Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation. Restricted to engineering undergraduate students in the final year of their program.
Name: APSC 486 Credits: 6 Desciption: Teams comprising students in APSC 486 and COMM 486 create a business plan and a prototype or engineering solution of a novel product, process, or process component.
Name: APSC 496D Credits: 9 Desciption: Projects involving students from several departments.
Name: APSC 496E Credits: 4 Desciption: Projects involving students from several departments.
Name: APSC 498H Credits: 3 Desciption: Requires approval of a Department Head or Program Director.
Name: APSC 541 Credits: 3 Desciption: A broad introduction to the entrepreneurial process, for engineers who would like to form or grow a technology company, and those with a general interest in the field. Key factors of new venture creation are identified and evaluated.
Name: APSC 598G Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: APPP 501 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Leading complex multidisciplinary projects through management processes; project management frameworks, standards; core management processes of planning, scheduling, estimating, survey of communication, risk, and management issues; case studies in industry-relevant project management. Collaboratively delivered with the Faculty of Commerce and Business Administration.
Name: APPP 502 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Skills for leading change that influences triple-bottom-line; sustainability, change agency systems thinking; awareness and perspective for engagement and communication; adaptive leadership; change dynamics; cases studies in organizational and social change. Collaboratively delivered with the Faculty of Commerce and Business Administration.
Name: APPP 503 Credits: 1.5 Desciption: Behaviour of people and groups and its application to management and leadership within professional organizations; motivation, group dynamics, and organizational structure; leadership styles and effectiveness; assessing organizational effectiveness. Collaboratively delivered with the Faculty of Commerce and Business Administration.
Name: APPP 505 Credits: 3 Desciption: Relevant measurable metrics of a project; data interpretation techniques; introduction to data visualization; overview of big data and predictive analytics; strategies related to metrics and data, ethical and privacy concerns. Collaboratively delivered with the Faculty of Commerce and Business Administration.
Name: APPP 506 Credits: 3 Desciption: A capstone design project designed to give students experience in leading complex multidisciplinary projects relevant to their professional specialization. Collaboratively delivered with the Faculty of Commerce and Business Administration.
Name: APBI 200 Credits: 3 Desciption: Physical, chemical and biological properties of soils; soil formation, classification, use and conservation. There are no prerequisites for this course, but background in Biology 12, Chemistry 12, and Physics 12 (or first-year university-level) is strongly advised.
Name: APBI 210 Credits: 4 Desciption: A comparative study of pteridophytes, gymnosperms and angiosperms, integrating form, function, and ecology.
Name: APBI 222 Credits: 3 Desciption: The cultivation of key temperate fruits, vegetables, greenhouse, ornamental and nursery crops in BC, integrated with scientific and practical aspects of their sustainable production and marketing.
Name: APBI 244 Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic principles and processes of climatology. Energy and water balance concepts. Weather systems and climate change, microclimate of soils, crops, forests, and animals.
Name: APBI 260 Credits: 6 Desciption: Introduction to the biophysical and socioeconomic factors affecting systems management and production in selected agroecosystems. Credit will be granted for only one of APBI 260 or APBI 265.
Name: APBI 265 Credits: 3 Desciption: Principles and practices necessary to understand practical concerns of sustainable food systems.  Credit will be granted for only one of APBI 265 or APBI 260.
Name: APBI 290 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and interpretation of current issues in applied biology. Topics will vary from year to year.
Name: APBI 311 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cardiovascular, respiratory and osmoregulatory physiology of vertebrates.
Name: APBI 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Reproductive and digestive physiology, and current technologies applied to these systems in domestic and wild animals.
Name: APBI 314 Credits: 3 Desciption: Contemporary use of animals for food production, companionship, recreation and science; social and ethical issues concerning human impacts on animals; animals in human culture; protection of animals by society and the law.
Name: APBI 315 Credits: 3 Desciption: Scientific assessment of animal well-being, ethical concepts applied to animal use, and animal welfare issues arising in agriculture, biomedical research and other areas. Credit will be granted for only one of APBI 315, ANSC 515, or AANB 515.
Name: APBI 318 Credits: 4 Desciption: Small-scale classical (i.e., non-biotechnological) plant breeding. Hands-on, application-oriented approach to techniques and procedures for managing seed inventories, designing and implementing a simple plant breeding program, and evaluating the impact of selection on breeding populations and desired outcomes.
Name: APBI 319 Credits: 3 Desciption: Interactions between aquaculture and the environment. Current issues, comparison of systems, species, production methods, environments, and socioeconomics.
Name: APBI 322 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to horticultural practice in an experiential learning format. Plant identification, seeding, propagation, pruning, cultivation media, pesticide application and safety are examined in the context of integrated crop management. An additional fee may be required for the pesticide certification examination.
Name: APBI 324 Credits: 3 Desciption: Introduction to seed plant taxonomy emphasizing descriptive morphology and identification. Each student will be required to submit a plant collection.
Name: APBI 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the structure, classification and biology of insects; ecology and life-histories of insects; insect-plant relations.
Name: APBI 342 Credits: 3 Desciption: The diversity of soil organisms (bacteria, protozoa, fungi, animals, plants) in natural and managed ecosystems; roles in primary production, nutrient cycling, decomposition and reclamation; interactions between soil organisms; responses to environmental change.
Name: APBI 351 Credits: 4 Desciption: Mechanisms and regulation of functional processes contributing to the assimilation, transport and utilization of water, mineral nutrients and carbon by plants.
Name: APBI 360 Credits: 4 Desciption: Animals and Plants as Components of Agricultural Ecosystems. A systems approach is used to investigate the functions and interactions of plants and animals in agricultural systems. Field trips for assessment of existing agroecosystems.
Name: APBI 361 Credits: 3 Desciption: A detailed exploration of biophysical, economic, and social ecosystem sustainability indicators for primary production subsystems.
Name: APBI 398 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research methods including research design, scientific critique, writing proposals and reports, and oral presentation.
Name: APBI 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Integration of soil physics, chemistry, and biology in understanding essential soil processes.
Name: APBI 402 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of fundamental, unifying, soil science principles in sustainable ecosystem management.
Name: APBI 403 Credits: 3 Desciption: Field and laboratory analytical techniques in the chemical, biological and physical assessment of soils. Credit will be granted for only one of SOIL 503 or APBI 403.
Name: APBI 410 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of physiology and pathology principles to health and disease of domestic animals.
Name: APBI 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts, methods, and applications of belowground ecology with emphasis on biotic interactions in soil; roles that aboveground and belowground communities play in regulating the structure and function of terrestrial ecosystems and their responses to global change. Credit will be granted for only one of FRST 512 or APBI 412.
Name: APBI 413 Credits: 3 Desciption: Understanding, assessing, and managing stress in farm, companion, captive wildlife, and research animals: sources of stress; behavioural, emotional, cognitive, and physiological responses; effects on growth, reproduction, health.
Name: APBI 414 Credits: 3 Desciption: Research seminar integrating diverse information to address global animal issues including: animal-source foods and human health, environmental impact of livestock production, trade in exotic animals.
Name: APBI 415 Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of principles and research methods of animal behaviour to practical problems in the care of farm, companion, wild and research animals, and in animal training, and human-wildlife conflict.
Name: APBI 416 Credits: 3 Desciption: Evaluation of humane treatment of individual animals living in the wild and managed within conservation biology. Assessment of attitudes and viewpoints of the role of animal welfare in conservation biology.
Name: APBI 418 Credits: 3 Desciption: Management of fin fish throughout the life cycle; broodstock, egg, larvae, and juvenile. Control of environmental factors, including pathogens, for maximum productivity at all life stages.
Name: APBI 419 Credits: 3 Desciption: Management of fish health in aquaculture; common fish pathogens, epidemiology, prevention, and treatment of diseases.
Name: APBI 426 Credits: 3 Desciption: Biology and physiology of selected plant-microbe relationships. Impacts of plant-microbe relationships on society.
Name: APBI 428 Credits: 3 Desciption: Development and implementation of multi-disciplinary pest management programs in agricultural crops.
Name: APBI 440 Credits: 3 Desciption: Concepts, principles, and recent discoveries in genome structure and comparative genomics in plants with a focus on economically important plants; applications of genomics approaches to questions in plant genetics, evolution, and ecology.
Name: APBI 444 Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the application of knowledge and principles of agroecology and forest ecology to global agroforestry systems. The course includes a one-weekend field trip that requires a supplemental fee.
Name: APBI 460 Credits: 3 Desciption: The relationship between biological diversity and sustainability for the management of agroecosystems; emphasise on ecological interactions between natural ecosystems and agroecosystems, including connections between agroecology and conservation biology. A fee will be assessed each student to cover field trip costs.
Name: APBI 490 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis and interpretation of current issues in applied biology.
Name: APBI 495 Credits: 3 Desciption: Impacts of wildlife on crop productivity in temperate and tropical environments, the resiliency of wildlife populations to conventional control methodology, adoption of innovative methods to reduce crop damage, and the impact of introduced species on native fauna.
Name: APBI 496A Credits: 3 Desciption: Application of principles and concepts of Applied Animal Biology to experiential learning in the fields of wild, companion, lab, and farm animal welfare and management.
Name: APBI 496B Credits: 6 Desciption: Application of principles and concepts of Applied Animal Biology to experiential learning in the fields of wild, companion, lab, and farm animal welfare and management.
Name: APBI 497A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: APBI 497B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: APBI 497C Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: APBI 497D Credits: 5 Desciption: 
Name: APBI 497E Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: APBI 498 Credits: 3 Desciption: Preparation of a comprehensive and analytical review of an approved topic under the supervision of a faculty member. Consultation with a program adviser is required.
Name: APBI 499 Credits: 6 Desciption: Design and execution of an experimental/analytical research project leading to the preparation of a thesis.
Name: ANTH 100A Credits: 3 Desciption: Basic concepts and methods of anthropology; culture and race; comparative study of social systems, religion, symbolism, art, and other institutions. Examples are drawn from a variety of cultures.
Name: ANTH 201A Credits: 3 Desciption: An introduction to the study of the relations between ethnic groups and of the interplay between ethnicity and other social factors.
Name: ANTH 202B Credits: 3 Desciption: Cultural background to contemporary events; problems of nationalism and regional conflicts, economic and social development, gender, religion and social change. Course may stress a different region of the world in different years.
Name: ANTH 210 Credits: 3 Desciption: An anthropological exploration of how the collection, cultivation and consumption of food shapes human society and culture.
Name: ANTH 213 Credits: 3 Desciption: An anthropological exploration of how understandings of sex and gender are culturally and historically shaped.
Name: ANTH 215 Credits: 3 Desciption: Television shows, dramas, movies, advertising, marketing, manga (Japanese style "comics"), anime (Japanese animation), theatrical forms, popular literature, popular music, fashion fads, tourism, toys, and sports.
Name: ANTH 217 Credits: 3 Desciption: The study of communication; the relation between communication and its cultural context with emphasis on verbal and non-verbal communication, cross-cultural communication, and cultural differences in the use of oral, literate, and electronic media.
Name: ANTH 220 Credits: 3 Desciption: The cultures, languages, and resources of First Nations, with anthropological perspectives on colonization and development.
Name: ANTH 227 Credits: 3 Desciption: An examination of health and illness, in their social and cultural contexts.
Name: ANTH 241 Credits: 3 Desciption: The critical study of anthropology museums as social institutions and material culture research and classification from the late 19th century to the present day.
Name: ANTH 300A Credits: 3 Desciption: Contemporary approaches to society and culture in anthropology.
Name: ANTH 301 Credits: 3 Desciption: Eurasia, including the Russian Federation, Central Asia, and Mongolia, with an emphasis on issues of power, identities, and transnational mobility in the region.
Name: ANTH 302 Credits: 3 Desciption: A specialized study of ethnographic and theoretical problems relating to South Asia.
Name: ANTH 303A Credits: 3 Desciption: A specialized study of ethnographic and theoretical problems in one area. Different culture areas or regions may be selected each term. Consult the Department for this year's offerings.
Name: ANTH 304A Credits: 3 Desciption: Specialized study of ethnographic and theoretical problems of the region.
Name: ANTH 312 Credits: 3 Desciption: Theoretical approaches to, and the ethnographic study of, gender in cross-cultural contexts.
Name: ANTH 315 Credits: 3 Desciption: Japanese culture and society: patterns of organization, value systems, family, education, work, minorities and diversity, harmony and conflict, urban/rural differences, gender, sexuality, youth, tradition, continuity, change, and future prospects.
Name: ANTH 317A Credits: 3 Desciption: A survey of the ethnographic uses of language data and the techniques of linguistic analysis.
Name: ANTH 329A Credits: 3 Desciption: Anthropological perspectives on contemporary issues of public policy, law, and political activity, as they affect the place of First Nations people in British Columbia and Canada.
Name: ANTH 331A Credits: 3 Desciption: Anthropological perspectives on art, aesthetics, and expressive culture.
Name: ANTH 332 Credits: 3 Desciption: An ethnographic perspective on the dynamics of oral tradition in various oral and literate cultures; the characteristics and roles of oral genres including folktale, genealogy, oral history, autobiography, and myth in these societies; and the relationship between orality and literacy.
Name: ANTH 341A Credits: 3 Desciption: Museums, galleries, monuments, and other cultural institutions' relations to our perception of history and geography.
Name: ANTH 360 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of the relations between human societies and the ecological aspects of their environment (including technology, society, and ideology).  Previously ANTH 460.
Name: ANTH 378 Credits: 3 Desciption: Analysis of contemporary mass media and of the anthropological use of media (photography, film, digital audio and video, etc.).
Name: ANTH 400A Credits: 3 Desciption: The development of anthropological theory and practice in institutional contexts.
Name: ANTH 401 Credits: 3 Desciption: Anthropological perspectives of indigenous cultures and societies of North America.
Name: ANTH 403H Credits: 3 Desciption: An advanced study of ethnographic and theoretical problems. A different region may be studied each term.
Name: ANTH 413A Credits: 3 Desciption: A cross-cultural survey of the social and cultural bases of relatedness including changing family relationships, kinship, and social organization, based on theoretical analysis and case studies.
Name: ANTH 415A Credits: 3 Desciption: Comparative study of religious beliefs, practices, and movements; relations between religious, social, and political institutions; religion as a force for stability and change; anthropological/sociological theories of religion.
Name: ANTH 418 Credits: 3 Desciption: Applications of statistical techniques to quantitative and qualitative data in Anthropology.
Name: ANTH 428 Credits: 3 Desciption: A medical anthropological perspective on medical science, technology, translational research, and clinical practice, in laboratory, clinic, family, social, and cultural contexts. Topics include explanatory models of health, acute and chronic illness, disability; social and cultural dimensions genetics; clinical interaction.
Name: ANTH 429 Credits: 3 Desciption: Includes examination of the social and cultural dimensions of specific life-threatening emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases, the political economy of health, cultural interpretations of illness and healing, medical pluralism, therapy management, and the cultural construction of efficacy.
Name: ANTH 431C Credits: 6 Desciption: Management of museum collections and their public presentation, addressing questions of access, collaboration, and cultural property. The public interpretation of anthropological concepts and materials utilizing the programs and facilities of the Museum of Anthropology.
Name: ANTH 433A Credits: 3 Desciption: General reading and/or a research undertaking, with the agreement, and under the supervision, of a Department faculty member selected by the student. No more than six credits of Directed Studies may be taken for credit toward the Major or Honours program.
Name: ANTH 433B Credits: 3 Desciption: General reading and/or a research undertaking, with the agreement, and under the supervision, of a Department faculty member selected by the student. No more than six credits of Directed Studies may be taken for credit toward the Major or Honours program.
Name: ANTH 449A Credits: 6 Desciption: Will usually require the presentation of at least one research paper.
Name: ANTH 451 Credits: 3 Desciption: Conservation of organic materials within a museum environment; the nature of materials, mechanisms of deterioration and principles of preventive conservation. Recommended for students intending to work with cultural materials.
Name: ANTH 471 Credits: 3 Desciption: Cross-cultural study of the operation of law within contested systems of meaning, the social organization of law, and forms of consciousness of the participants in legal/justice practices.
Name: ANTH 478A Credits: 3 Desciption: Ethnographic digital video production, including methods of ethnographic fieldwork, creation of field notes, and research design; basics of digital video planning, production, and editing. Production fees are charged for this course. Prerequisite: ANTH 378 is recommended.
Name: ANTH 495A Credits: 3 Desciption: An intensive examination of selected topics in Anthropology. Consult the Department for this year's offerings.
Name: ANTH 495C Credits: 3 Desciption: An intensive examination of selected topics in Anthropology. Consult the Department for this year's offerings.
Name: ANTH 500 Credits: 6 Desciption: Various approaches to anthropology, from classical to contemporary.
Name: ANTH 505A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANTH 506A Credits: 3 Desciption: The relationship between current theoretical issues and research methods.
Name: ANTH 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANTH 516 Credits: 3 Desciption: A discussion of selected methods used to observe, describe, and interpret cultural phenomena and social organization, including participant observation, interviewing, ethnographic semantics, life histories, componential analysis, and photography. Attention will also be given to ethics in anthropological research and writing and to such analytic matters as the nature of description, conceptualization, generalization, and content analysis.
Name: ANTH 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: A discussion of selected basic data-gathering methods in their relation to the development of ideas about the archaeological record.
Name: ANTH 518A Credits: 3 Desciption: Analytical approaches to the study of museums and collections. Methods of field collecting, collections research, laboratory procedures, visitor studies, social organization of museum and related cultural industries, exhibit and program evaluation techniques and the ethics of museum research and practice.
Name: ANTH 519 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANTH 519A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANTH 540A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANTH 540C Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANTH 540D Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANTH 545A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANTH 549A Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ANTH 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: ANSC 549A Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: ANSC 549B Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: ANSC 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 392 Credits: 4 Desciption: Lectures and laboratory sessions on the human gross and functional anatomy of the limbs and trunk. The course includes the study of predissected specimens. For credit only in the Department of Physical Therapy.
Name: ANAT 448J Credits: 3 Desciption: Permission of the Head and supervisor required.
Name: ANAT 448L Credits: 4 Desciption: Permission of the Head and supervisor required.
Name: ANAT 448N Credits: 6 Desciption: Permission of the Head and supervisor required.
Name: ANAT 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: Seminar discussions of current topics in vertebrate cell biology.
Name: ANAT 511 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 512 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 513 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 514 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 517 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 527 Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected topics in muscle contraction at an advanced level Permission of Head required.
Name: ANAT 548A Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 548B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 548C Credits: 4 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 548D Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: Lectures, demonstrations, discussions and student seminars on selected and current topics in cell biology and the anatomical sciences. Attendance is required of all M.Sc. and Ph.D. students in Anatomy and Cell Biology.
Name: ANAT 590 Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: ANAT 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
Name: AGEC 530B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AGEC 549 Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: AFST 250A Credits: 3 Desciption: Cultural, historical, and geographical issues of African Studies.
Name: AFST 352A Credits: 3 Desciption: Major issues and theoretical approaches.
Name: ADHE 327 Credits: 3 Desciption: Planning, conducting and evaluating instruction for adults.  Consideration is given to different beliefs and ways of thinking about teaching.
Name: ADHE 328 Credits: 3 Desciption: The history, roles, and activities of institutions in the field of adult education.  Institutions in Canada, Great Britain, and the United States are emphasized, and some experiences in other countries are examined.
Name: ADHE 329 Credits: 3 Desciption: Organization and administration of adult education events such as short courses, seminars, workshops, conferences and institutes.
Name: ADHE 330 Credits: 3 Desciption: Community based adult education with particular emphasis on the application of knowledge of the social, economic, cultural and political environment in developing and conducting adult education programs with an for individuals and groups.
Name: ADHE 412 Credits: 3 Desciption: Survey of adult education theory and practice in Canada and the world. The focus is on the purpose and participation in, adult education, characteristics of learners, and the training of adult educators.
Name: ACAM 320A Credits: 3 Desciption: Selected Asian Canadian Asian Migration topics. Consult acam.arts.ubc.ca for this year's offerings.
Name: ACAM 350 Credits: 3 Desciption: Digital media production in the context of community engagement. Includes critical media literacy, community-based research ethics, project design, training in media forms such audio, video, photography, and web publishing.
Name: ACAM 447A Credits: 3 Desciption: General reading and/or a research undertaking within the scope of Asian Canadian and Asian Migration.
Name: AANB 500 Credits: 3 Desciption: Participation in this course is compulsory for all graduate students in Applied Animal Biology.
Name: AANB 504 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AANB 515 Credits: 3 Desciption: Credit will be granted for only one of APBI 315, ANSC 515, or AANB 515.
Name: AANB 530A Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AANB 530B Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AANB 530C Credits: 6 Desciption: 
Name: AANB 530D Credits: 2 Desciption: 
Name: AANB 549A Credits: 12 Desciption: 
Name: AANB 549B Credits: 18 Desciption: 
Name: AANB 550 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AANB 551 Credits: 3 Desciption: 
Name: AANB 649 Credits: 0 Desciption: 
